




Fox News FOX SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER 6:00 PM EST
January 24, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6929 words
Byline: Bret Baier, Peter Doocy, Jonathan Hunt, Kimberley Strassel, Josh Kraushaar, Leslie Marshall, Peter Doocy, Josh Kraushaar, Chad Pergram, Alexandria Hoff, Griff Jenkins
Body


SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: That's it for us. Have a great night.
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: All right. Thank you, evil Shannon Bream.
BREAM: You're welcome.
BAIER: Good evening. I'm Bret Baier.
A Senate vote is scheduled for later tonight on President Trump's choice to run the Pentagon. Our "COMMON GROUND" segment looks at the bipartisan effort to move some government offices out of Washington. And our "WHATEVER HAPPENED TO" report on the investigations into last year's Trump assassination attempts.
President Trump just arrived in California. We expect some live shots out of there soon to get an update on the wildfires that have ravaged the Los Angeles area. Earlier today, he surveyed the damage in North Carolina from Hurricane Helene. During that visit, the president said he thinks he will recommend the abolishment of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA.
He also is talking about the implementation of one of his major campaign promises, the removal of illegal immigrants from this country.
We have "FOX TEAM COVERAGE" tonight. Jonathan Hunt is in Pacific, Palisades, California, as we see the president's arrival there and where he will tour. But we head to senior White House correspondent Peter Doocy, starts us off tonight with a wrap of the day, live from the North Lawn. Good evening, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Good evening, Bret.
President Trump's problems with FEMA date back to the days just after Hurricane Helene, when it was revealed that a FEMA supervisor was telling aid workers to skip houses with Trump signs.
So, he's on the ground, seeing what could be changed, and he is also making big, big changes at the southern border.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Four days, it's going very well. We're getting the bad, hard criminals out. These are murders.
DOOCY (voice over): Two U.S. military aircraft flew repatriation flights from the U.S. to Guatemala last night. ICE has arrested at least 538 illegal immigrants since Monday's inauguration and additional active-duty U.S. troops have started arriving at the southern border.
STEPHEN MILLER, WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF: Four years of national humiliation and embarrassment are over. Illegal aliens are no longer exempt from our laws.
DOOCY (voice over): Today, the president also confirmed that Dr. Anthony Fauci is the latest former federal official to have their taxpayer funded security detail canceled.
TRUMP: Well, they can hire their own security. They all made a lot of money.
DOOCY (voice over): As the president surveyed western North Carolina's recovery from Hurricane Helene, his distaste with FEMA grew.
TRUMP: Maybe getting rid of FEMA. I think, frankly, FEMA is not good.
DOOCY (voice over): A former FEMA director who served during Trump's first term agrees.
BROCK LONG, FORMER ADMINISTRATOR, FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: Unfortunately, FEMA is immersed in terrible bureaucratic process.
DOOCY (voice over): President Trump plans to sign an executive order requiring the DHS secretary and defense secretary to work up potential changes as part of the newly created Federal Emergency Management Agency Review Council.
TRUMP: I'd like to see the states take care of disasters.
I think you'll going to find it a lot less expensive. You'll do it for less than half --
DOOCY: Both of California's Democratic senators decided to stay in D.C. for tonight's vote on Pete Hegseth and declined a White House invitation to join the president in L.A.
Although, the president didn't seem to mind missing a cross-country plane ride with Senator Adam Schiff.
TRUMP: I wasn't thrilled to be honest with you, and I saw him last night on television. It looks like he got hit with a baseball bat or something. What happened to him? Something happened to him?
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): And just now, aboard Air Force One, the White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt was informed by a reporter that when Air Force One lands, Gavin Newsom, the California governor, is going to be waiting to greet President Trump.
She said that was news to them and that she thinks the president would like to see him. We'll see any minute. Bret?
BAIER: OK. Peter Doocy, live on the North Lawn. Peter, thank you.
We are getting live pictures from California's Air Force One has touched down there in Los Angeles. We expect to see the president exiting Air Force One there. And we believe that's Governor Gavin Newsom at the bottom of the stairs, waiting the president's arrival.
As we zoom in there, I think that is the governor, as he is waiting the president's arrival.
Again, he was not a part of the trip, as far as being on the itinerary for President Trump to be taking a tour with Governor Newsom. But the governor is saying, he would show up when Air Force One arrived, and that you are looking at live.
I'm going to bring in Jonathan Hunt, just to help me with where the president is going here.
As we talk through these live pictures, Jonathan, you are in Pacific Palisades, I believe, have been dealing with the devastation here. The president is going to take a tour of some of the worst hit areas, and we'll leave these live pictures up as we're talking through it.
JONATHAN HUNT, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bret. He is going to take a tour of the destruction here. He will see that the winds that have fanned all of this destruction over the last two weeks have finally died down. That is giving exhausted firefighters and traumatized residents a moment to breathe, but it may only be a moment.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HUNT (voice over): A picture-perfect day on the Pacific Coast Highway belies what's happened here and what may be yet to come.
KAREN BASS, MAYOR OF LOS ANGELS, CALIFORNIA: We want to be very aggressive, proactive, in anticipation in -- of rain.
HUNT (voice over): Just as residents begin to pick up the pieces from the devastating fires that destroyed once vibrant communities like the Pacific Palisades, so, officials prepare for the next potential threat, rain and mudslides.
With so much vegetation stripped away by fire and so much debris on the ground, any significant rainfall could bring further chaos, and it could put further pressure on state and city officials, already facing criticism over their preparations for and response to the recent fires.
TRUMP: I want to see the water be released and come down into Los Angeles and throughout the state.
HUNT: President Trump claims California Governor Gavin Newsom's policies prevent plentiful water supply from Northern California getting to drier Southern California. The governor says that is wrong and irrelevant.
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D-CA): The State Water Project has nothing to do with the fires here, nothing. Period. Full stop. It's not he said she said. This is not just an assertion; it's a foundational fact.
HUNT (voice over): The politics of fire and fire prevention, though, will not be at the forefront of residents' minds this weekend. Instead, they will be looking anxiously to the heavens and the hills, hoping that Mother Nature doesn't send a second catastrophe to follow the first.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HUNT: So, President Trump will also talk with firefighters up here in the Palisades and residents who have lost so much., Bret, he will likely have kind and supportive words for them.
His conversations, if any, with Governor Newsom waiting there at LAX likely going to be a little more tense. Bret?
BAIER: Yes. Jonathan, let's talk about that for a minute. This is a little surreal. The governor is kind of standing out there by himself. They have not talked since 2020, according to the governor.
HUNT: Yes.
BAIER: He, the president has been very critical of Governor Newsom, and also the mayor out there as far as how she and he have handled everything. So, you wonder how this conversation is going, and whether, I mean, now the president sees that the governor is at the bottom of the stairs.
HUNT: Yes, it's going to be very interesting to see their interaction, to see a handshake, to listen in, if we possibly can, I'll get a readout later of the conversation they have.
There is this ongoing spat about water supply from Northern California to Southern California, obviously, with the snow melt, et cetera, there is a lot of water that collects in the north.
There is a question of water policy, whether enough is brought to the south. The president doesn't think there is. Governor Gavin Newsom, as you heard in our report, that says that is completely irrelevant to the situation that unfolded here on the ground a couple of weeks ago, and is -- have bears no relevance to how the fire was prepared for and how it was actually fought.
So, that's just one bone of contention between the two men, as we know very well, Brett, they have a lot more than that to talk about.
BAIER: Yes, and you know, in North Carolina today, Jonathan, the president said he wants to tie a couple of other things to relief efforts or funding for California. One, being voter I.D. for California, and also your water issue as you talk about it, how he is talked about it many, many times.
(CROSSTALK)
HUNT: Yes.
BAIER: Clearing out the brush and releasing the water from the north, in his words. How does that get received out there in L.A.?
HUNT: The governor Newsom had a pretty response right away to that, saying that in no way, shape, or form should federal aid to those affected by a disaster be conditional.
So, I think that will be the response you would hear from Governor Newsom, once again, if he's asked about it over the next 24 hours or so. I would imagine it would be a similar response from Mayor Karen Bass and most of the Democrat-elected officials here in California. That they don't believe that any conditions should be placed on anything.
But we know that President Trump believes in the art of the deal, and it's part of the negotiation.
(CROSSTALK)
BAIER: All right. Let's listen in, Jonathan. I don't know if we can hear from there, but let's listen it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER (voice over): There is an exchange there. There you see the president and the First Lady Melania Trump, with Governor Gavin Newsom. Let's listen to see if they make any comments here.
TRUMP: Hello, everybody. So, we just left North Carolina a little while ago. We have that in very good shape. We have the congressman in charge, and Michael Whatley, and we're going to do a lot of work. We have the Army Corps of Engineers working as they are here, and I think you're going to see some very big progress.
They left them high and dry, and now we're going to be taking a little tour with some of the people from the area.
I appreciate the governor coming out and meeting me. Gavin, -- very much. And we'll be talking a little bit. We want to get it fixed. We want to get the problem fixed. And there'll be some ways, but it's like they got hit by a bomb. Right?
NEWSOM: Yes.
TRUMP: Like they got hit by a bomb. People like --
NEWSOM: Most importantly, thank you for being here. It means a great deal to all of us, not just the folks at Palisades, the folks in Altadena that were devastated. We're going to need your support. We're going to need your help. You were there for us during COVID. I don't forget that, and I have all the expectations that we'll be able to work together to get this speedy recovery.
TRUMP: Very well. We got to get it done.
Tremendous numbers of lives have been affected. A lot of real estate has been affected. Nobody's ever probably seen anything like this.
NEWSOM: All right.
TRUMP: You can almost say, since the Second World War, when you think of it.
NEWSOM: Yes.
TRUMP: I mean, nothing like this has happened. And we're going to get it fixed. So, we'll get it permanently fixed so it can't happen again. And again, we'll be talking a little bit later, and we got to work out. OK?
NEWSOM: Appreciate, Mr. President.
TRUMP: Thank you, Gavin. Thank you. Thank you very much.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How do you have to agree a lot over the past week, over what has happened in this state? How do you plan to put the differences aside?
(CROSSTALK)
TRUMP: We got to get this finish. We're looking to get something completed. And the way you get it completed is go work together. He's the governor of this state, and we're going to get it completed. They are going to need a lot of federal help. Unless you don't need any, which could be OK.
NEWSOM: We're going to need a lot of federal help.
TRUMP: So, we're going to take care of things. OK?
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (INAUDIBLE).
NEWSOM: I have all the confidence the world, we'll work that out.
TRUMP: Thank you, folks. Thank you.
I guess some of you are coming with us, some of you not. Thank you very much. Thanks. I'll see you --
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (INAUDIBLE)
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: OK. So, Governor Gavin Newsom with President Trump there and the first lady. And talking about cooperation, talking about federal help, talking about working together.
I want to bring in our panel early. Kimberley Strassel, a member of the editorial board at the Wall Street Journal Josh Kraushaar, Fox News Radio political analyst Leslie Marshall, Democratic strategist. Also, bring in Peter Doocy from the White House, the North Lawn.
An amazing picture there as President Trump and Governor Newsom walked towards Marine One to begin this tour.
Kimberley, first to you, that's a message of unity and working together. Obviously, they've talked at each other for a long time. They hadn't talked in person since 2020, but disasters and devastation bring politicians together, and it looks like this has.
KIMBERLEY STRASSEL, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Yes. I mean, by the way, that was very good to see. It was a little awkward with him standing there. It sounds as though the Trump team was not expecting this to happen.
So, what you just saw there seemed pretty impromptu, and that was the right way to approach it.
Now, I have to imagine, as they go into private conversations, some of those things that did not just come up publicly will come up about water issues, also, you know, whether or not the certain conditions might be attached to any aid that comes out. Those are the more complex questions yet to be sorted through.
BAIER: Leslie, you live out there. You are affected directly. You know a lot of people who have been affected directly. Your thoughts on that scene and what we just heard.
LESLIE MARSHALL, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: Well, I have to say that fire is non-partisan, and so is every disaster. And when you see, you know, the president is not only commander in chief, but a president needs to be the consoler in chief.
And I say that I'm a. Liberal Democrat, I am glad he is here to see with his own eyes the devastation. And I think every president, democrat or republican should go when you have devastation on this level. Over 17,000 people are out of their homes, including me.
And I have to say that I've seen my Governor work with President Trump when he was former President Trump, and I certainly hope that they'll put politics aside. I hope that he will have his humanity and compassion rise and see that those of us that are suffering, and people suffering far worse than my family out here that they don't want conditions attached, they don't want politics attached to that. They just want help to either get back into their homes or on with their lives.
BAIER: Yes, Peter Doocy from the North Lawn, that was the message, though, it sounded like that they were going to work together despite all the things that have been said up until this moment, as he gets off that plane and meets the governor at the bottom.
Obviously, he talked about North Carolina and his visit there today, but the message is here, let's figure out how to get this done.
DOOCY: Yes, and Gavin Newsom has gone in the last two months from -- for all intents and purposes, trying to Trump proof his state, trying to put administrative measures in place to prevent Donald Trump from undoing certain liberal priorities in California to getting very, very bad reviews for his handling of these fires in Southern California.
And Gavin Newsom is a smart guy. He knows that to improve his own position and to improve the lives of the people who have been affected by this fire, he can't just be dug in against Donald Trump. He was going to have to work with him all along.
Although, last night, I was in touch with the governor's office, and they said they were happy that the president accepted their invitation to California before he was sworn in, but they were not tracking any kind of an official meeting.
Obviously, Gavin Newsom was able to get that close, the Secret Service phoned somebody on the plane. The president was probably watching us, and he could see that he was just standing there at the bottom of the stairs by himself.
So, I don't think it was an ambush by any means, but it's a savvy move by a governor who's been in office for 12 years. He knows how these things go. He was always going to have to work it out with President Trump.
I'd be fascinated to know what's going on with their private conversation right now, if it's in the helicopter or the SUV.
And the great thing about the last few days, President Trump has revealed, he'll just tell us what they were talking about.
BAIER: Exactly. I mean, he has taken -- I'm going to get Josh in here real quick. He has taken more questions in the last few days after his inauguration than we saw from President Biden in months and months and months.
Josh, your comment here as we see another look at this moment. They obviously exchanged something there at the bottom of the stairs as well.
JOSH KRAUSHAAR, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: It's a remarkable scene. These are two of the biggest political enemies, and they've been calling -- both of them have been calling each other names, but look, they have a mutual interest in getting California rebuilt, and this is going to be one of the big priorities in the first few months of the Trump administration, and he's going to have to work with Governor Newsom.
I do think it also is notable that Donald Trump's political comeback last year was really reinvigorated when he went to another disaster scene in Ohio, in East Palestine, and really connected with people who were affected by the that state of train derailment, and connected with the people, and connected with the local officials in a way that the Biden administration didn't do an effective job of.
This is a moment for Donald Trump to show he can handle the natural disaster recoveries, not just in getting the money and not just in you know, figuring out a way to get things rebuilt, but also working with the local democratic officials.
BAIER: All right. Panel, Peter, Jonathan, thank you all. That was a moment, and after we saw all of the heartbreak in North Carolina, he's likely going to see more of that in Los Angeles. We'll be back with the panel in just a bit.
We have more news out of Washington. Tonight, we are getting ready for a key vote on one of the President Trump's cabinet nominees, and it's likely to face a close vote. Senators are expected to decide in a few hours whether Pete Hegseth should be Defense Secretary. Senior Congressional Correspondent Chad Pergram is on Capitol Hill tonight to tell us what Hegseth needs to get this job. Good evening, Chad.
CHAD PERGRAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Bret, good evening. The vote teeter is on the edge. In about three hours, the Senate decides if Pete Hegseth should become the 29th defense secretary. Democrats raise questions about infidelity, which Hegseth acknowledged, but he denies accusations of alcohol abuse and sexual assault.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI): This is kind of last call. This guy gets in and starts to behave the way reasonable people could expect him to behave. You're going to own that.
PERGRAM (voice over): At least two Republicans oppose Hegseth, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine. Fox is told to keep an eye on Mitch McConnell. SEN. TIM KAINE (D-VA): It's so rare to get, you know, Republican senators willing to oppose a Trump nominee, not over until the last vote is taken.
PERGRAM (voice over): If the GOP loses three votes, Vice President Vance could break a tie to confirm Hegseth. That's only happened once before with the cabinet secretary. Vice President Pence broke a tie to confirm Betsy DeVos as education secretary in 2017, most Republicans applaud the president's unconventional pick.
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): Mr. Hegseth will bring a warrior's perspective to the role of defense secretary, and will provide much needed fresh air at the Pentagon.
PERGRAM (voice over): Democrats made Republicans run the clock on Hegseth. That's why the vote comes around 9:00 tonight.
SEN. CYNTHIA LUMMIS (R-WY): I think we're going to be here all weekend, and I'm perfectly fine with that.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
PERGRAM (on camera): Once the Senate completes Hegseth, it votes to break a filibuster on the nomination of Kristi Noem to run DHS. It may take until Sunday to confirm her, but Noem could have bipartisan support, Bret.
BAIER: Chad Pergram live on the Hill. Chad, thanks. You can see that vote as we get it going here on Fox tonight.
Meantime, thousands and thousands of prolife demonstrators in Washington today, we will take you to the March for Life rally, next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: You are looking live in Los Angeles. This is a camera in the back of a V-22 Osprey, looking in the middle there you can see Marine One as the camera steadies here. President Trump is taking a tour with First Lady Melania Trump, heading to the Pacific Palisades area, and we'll take an aerial tour over the damage -- in the fire damage that is extensive throughout those communities in Los Angeles.
A rare view thanks to technology of the flight, as you have a number of aircraft trailing along Marine One for this tour.
Governor Gavin Newsom did talk to President Trump, but is not on this tour. We're told that this will be local officials once he gets to the ground and continues the tour on the ground. We'll take you back throughout this throughout the show.
Meantime, in Washington, thousands of prolife demonstrators filled Washington today for the 52nd annual March for Life. Crowd energized by President Trump's pardoning of prolife individuals prosecuted by the Biden administration and promised changes to the law under which they were convicted. Correspondent Alexandria Hoff shows us tonight.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
J.D. VANCE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I want more babies in the United States of America.
ALEXANDRIA HOFF, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Vice President Vance choosing the national March for Life as his first public appearance since the inauguration. President Trump sharing this message to the crowd.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Never again will religious persecution be allowed to happen in America.
HOFF (voice over): Ahead of the March, the president pardoned 24 prolife protesters convicted under the Biden administration for violating the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, the FACE Act, Republicans say it was unfairly applied.
Today, the Justice Department dropped three of the cases and announced the threshold for action would be raised, stating future abortion related FACE Act prosecutions and civil actions will be permitted only in extraordinary circumstances.
GOP lawmakers joined thousands in support of the 52nd annual March to the Supreme Court. It's the third since the Dobbs decision effectively overturned Roe v. Wade.
HOFF: So, why still march in January in the cold? Well, organizers say that they're going to continue to do so each year in the nation's capital until a culture of life is restored across the country.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We've got a long way to go, and we need some limits on the federal level as well.
HOFF (voice over): The House passed the Born-Alive Act this week, requiring lifesaving care be applied to infants who survive abortion. Democrats blocked the Senate's version.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): The bill is deeply pernicious because it attacks women's health care through false narratives and outright fear mongering.
SEN. JAMES LANKFORD (R-OK): Senator Schumer kept calling me an extremist. I don't meet many Americans that don't think you should give care to a child who is crying on the table.
HOFF (voice over): According to a Knights of Columbus-Marist Poll released ahead of today's March, 62 percent of Americans consider themselves to be prochoice, but 67 percent support legal limits.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
HOFF (on camera): Planned Parenthood did issue a response to the president's FACE Act pardon, saying the action disregarded the law and green lit violence against abortion providers, Bret.
BAIER: Alex, thank you. Stocks were down to end the week. The Dow lost 141, the S&P 500 was off 17. The NASDAQ fell 99.
For the week, the Dow was up just over two percentage points. The S&P 500 gained one and two -- 1-3/4, rather, the NASDAQ finished ahead 1-2/3.
The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to review a major Church State dispute, an effort to establish the nation's first publicly funded religious charter school. The justices will review a lower court ruling blocking an application by an Oklahoma Catholic church that concluded establishing the charter school would violate the constitutional ban on state sponsorship of religion. The case will likely be argued in April, with a ruling expected in June.
Next up, President Trump orders an end to Diversity Equity and Inclusion programs DEI on a federal level, but will private companies follow suit?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Looking live at the flight that Marine One is taking. This is from a V-22 Osprey along the coastline there of the devastation in Los Angeles County. This is what the president and first lady are looking at Marine One. Jonathan Hunts joins us again. That is the Malibu area, right, Jonathan?
HUNT: Yes. Bret, what Marine One has done is basically a couple of circuits. They've been looking at the coast line, the southern end of Malibu, basically, which suffered a great deal of destruction. They're looping around then as you come off the coast there, you come up to the Palisades which sits sort of on a bluff overlooking the ocean. They have been doing a couple of circuits here over the area right where I'm standing. They are just coming around the back of us right now, in fact, the area where we are standing, which is just completely destroyed.
And then they circuit up to the sort of northern tip of the Palisades area, which is only a few hundred yards from where we are. That's an area known as the alphabet streets, which they're be circling around to again just in about 30 seconds or so, I would say. And the alphabet streets, I have to tell you, Bret, is an extraordinary sight.
The president said on the tarmac at LAX, you heard him say it looks like something out of World War II. And I would have to say that is a very accurate description, street after street after street that the president, we are told is going to walk, at some point the alphabet streets. They are completely and utterly flattened. So the president will be getting a literal bird's eye view of this right now.
And I can tell you, Bret, having been in most of the streets in the Palisades, it is utterly breathtaking what President Trump and the first lady are looking at right now. And right behind us now, he is going pretty much right over our heads now. Marine One, I can see him there. So he is looking down. If he is looking out to the right of Marine One now, he would be looking at the alphabet streets. If he is looking to the left, he is looking at the part of the Palisades that we're in. And everywhere he looks, 360 degrees from Marine One now, all the president will be seeing is utter destruction, Bret.
BAIER: Yes, amazing to see it from the air. It gives you a real perspective of the devastation. By the way, there is always two Marine Ones when the president is flying, and that's what you saw there. The other shots that we're getting are out from a pool camera in the V-22 Ospreys. Jonathan Hunt on the ground, thank you.
Back to politics for a second. You already know President Trump is ordering the end to diversity, equity, and inclusion programs on a federal level. But what about private companies and DEI? Will they join in? Here is correspondent Griff Jenkins.
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
GRIFF JENKINS, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: President Trump putting CEOs with existing DEI programs on notice.
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: These are policies that were absolute nonsense throughout the government and the private sector.
JENKINS: Trump's DEI executive order directs the Justice Department to investigate the hiring and training practices of publicly traded corporations, large nonprofits, and foundations with assets of $500 million or more, and identify programs or policies that constitute illegal discrimination or preferences. The private sector is not bound by the E.O. in the same way the federal government is. But conservative legal scholars say choosing to buck the president is playing with fire.
DANIEL LENNINGTON, WISCONSIN INSTITUTE FOR LAW AND LIBERTY: I cannot imagine a world in which a company persists in DEI practices over the next six to nine months without incurring significant liability.
JENKINS: Several major companies from Walmart to Ford Motor Company, McDonald's and Lowe's, have already scaled back or abandoned DEI programs. Others like Costco are resisting, saying in a statement, "Our efforts at diversity, equity, and inclusion remind and reinforce with everyone at our company the importance of creating opportunities for all." JPMorgan Chase's CEO is refusing to bend to the will of anti-DEI activists.
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE: Bring them on. We are very proud of what we've done.
(END VIDEO TAPE)
JENKINS (on camera): What comes next, Bret, the attorney general must file a report by May 21st with investigation findings and recommendations on how to, quote, "encourage the private sector to end illegal discrimination and preferences, including DEI." Bret?
BAIER: Griff, thanks.
Up next, the panel on President Trump's first trip, and obviously we have seen a lot of it already, first trip of his second term, plus cabinet nominations and Winners and Losers when we come back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: Looking live in Los Angeles County. That's Pacific Palisades area, Marine One just touching down after an aerial tour. You saw some of that live as President Trump and the first lady were getting a tour of the devastated area not only in the Palisades, but also, as Jonathan Hunt was talking about, the corner of Malibu where there was devastation. The pool note reads this way, this is the White House pool, "It is hard to put in words because so much of what we're seeing is just rubble where there were once homes and businesses in a vibrant community. And then there are parts where entire blocks burned and some structures are miraculously unscathed. Trees are all charred. We saw a house that was completely decimated, and yet the swimming tool totally intact and beautiful. Sky quite hazy here. And you should have seen this as we did in the trailing camera from the pool." Let me bring in Jonathan Hunt before I bring in the panel again. Jonathan, this particular area very close to where you are.
HUNT: Yes, very close to us. The president landed, I would say, maybe a half-a-mile from where we are now. And the areas that he is going to tour, the destroyed retail area that the pool note was mentioning there, we have been around these streets so many times over the last two-and-a-half weeks, Bret. And it really is breathtaking. And I imagine a pool reporter flying out from Washington and seeing it for the first time, firsthand, is quite staggering. You can look at all the pictures you want on TV or in the newspapers, but to see it firsthand really does, quite literally, Bret, take your breath away. It did for me the first time I came up here, the first few days I came up here and just getting a sense of it, particularly if you see it on an aerial tour like that. It's staggering.
And as the president said, rightly, on the tarmac at Los Angeles International Airport earlier, it looks like something out of a scene from World War II. And it really does look like that, when you see entire blocks flattened. And the note the pool reporter mentioned about how one house here and there standing, where we are right now, Bret, you can see right behind me the complete destruction of a line of properties. Just to my right here, as Rich swings along, is one of those properties that is still standing. And it's impossible to tell why one property survives when so many others get destroyed. But this is a story that is told over and over again, and the president will see for himself as he continues his tour now. Bret?
BAIER: Yes, and we'll have live pictures throughout. He is getting in the SUV there. And he'll travel, we're told, on a walking tour. And we are likely to have live pictures for that as well. So stand by, if you would, Jonathan.
We are back with our panel, Leslie, Kimberley, and Josh. Kimberley, he started the day in North Carolina, which in and of itself was a little bit symbolic in that a lot of conservatives had been saying that North Carolina and the devastation after hurricane Helene had largely been overlooked and not talked about nationally, like -- and it's been 122 days, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates that only half of it has been restored or restructured. There is a lot of damage still there.
STRASSEL: Yes. And the president made a point of saying that he had been urged not to stop in North Carolina first, and he said that he absolutely was going to. He was going to make a point of reminding people. And he used it, I think, not just to showcase the devastation and to let that community know that he had not forgotten about them, that America has not forgotten about them, but to talk about the struggles and the problems that were evident in FEMA, the delayed response, and how that delay is still going on now.
I think the thing that is interesting to me, Bret, is between California and North Carolina, we're having a moment in this country where we are starting to have a national debate about preparedness and responsiveness and responsibility and division of responsibility between state and federal governments when this happens. And that's a good discussion we should be having.
BAIER: Yes. North Carolina, Josh, just the impact when we put up the graphic here. Hurricane Helene, at least 104 storm-related deaths, more than $53 billion in damage in North Carolina, 151,000 homes impacted. And we talk about the devastation out in L.A. as well. Those numbers are soaring, obviously, as that real estate and the devastation that they are looking at now. I want to play this soundbite about the president saying he would consider an overhaul, complete overhaul, or maybe get rid of FEMA. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: I will also be signing an executive order to begin the process of fundamentally reforming and overhauling FEMA, or maybe getting rid of FEMA. I think, frankly, FEMA is not good.
DEANNE CRISWELL, FORMER FEMA ADMINISTRATOR: There is always room for improvement. But it needs to start with the conversation with governors and state directors on what they have troubles with so we can hear from them to better understand how you would make changes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: I mean, this executive order is a commission to study that, Josh. But he's talking about maybe block granting to local and state governments instead of having federal officials go to areas they don't know and start a whole federal bureaucracy every time there is a disaster.
KRAUSHAAR: Yes, Bret, like any federal bureaucracy, FEMA has been unwieldy and inefficient, and there have been political scandals, too, about how it discriminated against Trump homes and Trump supporters, people who had Trump signs in their homes. So there's a lot of scandal. There's a lot of controversy at FEMA, and federal government is very inefficient.
I do think there's going to be a lot of resistance both in some of the communities and Capitol Hill to dramatically changing the role of FEMA. Maybe it would make sense to block grant some of the monies to the states, but FEMA is the biggest provider. And there has been talk, too, about letting private charities step up and replace the role that FEMA plays, but there is no comparison when it comes to the money that the federal government can provide.
So look, Trump also said he wants to reform the process. He didn't automatically say he wants to get rid of FEMA. He mentioned that as an option. I think even Republicans will be hesitant to make very dramatic changes given the scope of FEMA's role.
BAIER: Leslie, I know you mentioned about not having ties, and I know you mentioned concern about FEMA before. I want to talk broadly about first week. If you look at the Real Clear Politics average of polls of the president's approval, it is now up significantly -- 52.3 percent is the average of his performance right now compared to January of 2017 where he was underwater at that point when he started. What do you make of the fast and furious pace and how he has handled this first week?
MARSHALL: Well, I would say most of us here in California aren't being polled or asked because we are so distracted with just this disaster here, as others are in other parts of the nation that are affected in various ways.
Look, he said he was going to do a lot of things and he is doing a lot of things. So the people that voted for him or people that like policies that perhaps didn't vote for him, are going to be happy with that. And anybody likes to see a president take charge and hit the ground running, and that's what it shows.
But I also am not a huge believer in a poll since 2016, whether it's a Democrat or Republican, I poopoo a lot of the polls simply because of the methodology, and specifically how are they posing that question to those that they are sampling? And what is the market sampling for that particular poll?
BAIER: Kimberley, just anecdotally, you're talking to people, they say, wow, there is a lot that happened this week, no matter what your ideology is. It seemed like he took a ton of questions, many more than the previous president did in months. And there was stuff that happened.
STRASSEL: If you strip away the specific policies, this was a president who was trying to send a message. One, that someone competent, capable, and responsible is back in charge, able, but two, that people are sick of Washington saying it's going to do stuff and not getting stuff done. And he was very deliberately trying to say we are going to break some china, but we're going to make some changes.
BAIER: Panel, thanks so much for rolling with the punches. Leslie, I wish you the best out there, and hopefully all of this visit helps in the big picture. Thanks a lot. Have a great weekend.
Up next, "Notable Quotables." It's a big one.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
BAIER: It's hard to believe it's Friday. Time for "Notable Quotables."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENT: From this moment on, America's decline is over.
(SINGING)
CROWD: Hallelujah.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm here for the fun, do you know what I mean?
JOE BIDEN, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's been the honor of my life to serve as your president.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The declassification of files relating to the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
TRUMP: And everything will be revealed.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is like going from Droopy the Dog to Sonic the Hedgehog.
TRUMP: Announcing the formation of Stargate.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The first data centers are actually under construction.
REP. MIKE JOHNSON, (R-LA) HOUSE SPEAKER: It was shocking what President Biden did on the way out, pardoning his family.
TRUMP: These are the hostages for a pardon.
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER, (D-NY) SENATE MINORITY LEADER: It's a betrayal of the highest order of our Capitol police officers.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The Hughes fire broke out today.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a new start in a completely separate section.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not going back to Haiti.
TOM HOMAN, WHITE HOUSE BORDER CZAR: Well, he's wrong. He is going back to Haiti.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have mercy upon the people in our country who are scared.
TRUMP: I don't think it was a good service.
MARCO RUBIO, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: I just said I saved a bunch of money by switching to Geico. That's what I said.
(LAUGHTER)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: E-L-G-S-E-S, Eagles!
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are going to be on the Eagles elimination tour.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
BAIER: Oh, the spelling of the "Eagles," one week there.
Monday on SPECIAL REPORT, House Republicans go on a retreat in order to get on the same page for the Trump agenda.
Please join Shannon Bream, FOX NEWS SUNDAY. Her guests include Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Tom Cotton and Connecticut Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal.
You can also see my new special "Biden's Final Act" on FOX Nation. It is available right now.
Remember, if you can't catch us live, set your DVR, 6:00 p.m. in the east, 3:00 p.m. on the west coast. A lot happening on the west coast.
We've got you covered, fair, balanced, and still unafraid. THE INGRAHAM ANGLE starts now.

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
