




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 27, 2025 Monday 9:30 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 809 words
Byline: Zachary BasuDave Lawler
Body


January 27th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The federal government is going MAGA - fast.
Why it matters: President  
The new administration immediately moved to  
"We're getting rid of all of the cancer ... caused by the Biden administration," Trump told reporters while  
Driving the news: Late Friday night, the  
The mass firings, relayed via email, appear to violate a federal law that requires the administration to notify Congress 30 days before removing inspectors general.
Amid outrage from Democrats and ethics experts, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) - a Trump ally and longtime advocate for whistleblowers - called on the president to  
Zoom in: DEI offices and programs have been shuttered across the government, including at the     

And Trump  
There have been hundreds of staff removals or reassignments, including  
The Department of Justice reassigned  
The DOJ also  
Trump's National Security Council sent home around  
One of the administration's highest-profile firings so far was  
Between the lines: Trump loyalists have also moved to centralize control around public messaging, particularly when it comes to public health.
The Department of Heath and Human Services ordered an unprecedented "immediate pause" on all  
The Pentagon also ordered a  
The new administration is also moving quickly on issues including LGBTQ and civil rights.
The State Department  
DOJ ordered a  
It also ordered federal prosecutors  
Meanwhile, the Pentagon moved to  
Zoom out: Trump made no secret of his intentions to build a MAGA-aligned federal workforce during the campaign, and he quickly imposed a hiring freeze after taking office.
The vast majority of federal workers are career employees, not political appointments, but the president has made clear he wants them all to board the Trump train.
His administration is currently testing the ability to  
What to watch: Trump's nominee to lead the Office of Management and Budget, Russ Vought, will be a key architect of the White House's efforts to re-engineer the administrative state.
Vought has assailed "the woke and weaponized bureaucracy," and said in a 2023 speech to his conservative think tank that he wants to put federal bureaucrats "in trauma,"  
"When they wake up in the morning, we want them to not want to go to work because they are increasingly viewed as the villains," Vought said -  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
