




Forbes.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 577 words
Byline: Sara Dorn, Forbes Staff
Highlight: Trump is expected to sign the order, along with two others related to education, on Wednesday.
Body


Topline
President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order Wednesday that could revoke federal funding for K-12 schools that teach  radical gender ideology and critical race theory,  according to multiple reports a directive that could slash funding for tens of thousands of school districts across the country.
<figure>
<figcaption>
President Donald Trump delivers remarks before signing the Laken Riley Act, the first piece of legislation passed during his second term in office, in the East Room of the White House on January 29, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
The order on  ending radical indoctrination in K-12 schooling  would block federal aid to schools that teach  gender ideology and critical race theory in the classroom,  according toPolitico, which reported the order is among three related to education that Trump is expected to sign on Wednesday.
It would also require the Justice Department to take legal action against teachers and school officials  who sexually exploit minors or practice medicine without a license through  social transition  practices. 
Another order directs agencies to examine ways to expand federal funding for families who choose to send their children to private schools, according tomultiple reports.
The third order expected to be signed Wednesday would direct the Justice Department to investigate antisemitism at colleges and universities following a wave of antisemitic attacks that coincided with pro-Palestinian protests on campuses across the country.
The order also promises to cancel student visas for non-citizen college students who participated in pro-Palestinian protests,Reuters reported.
Tangent
States allocate federal funding for K-12 schools based on the financial needs of each school, with those in low-income communities receiving the highest portion of funds. About 8% to 10% of funding for K-12 schools nationwide comes from the federal government,Chalkbeat reported, noting it s unclear how the Trump administration would enforce the order since federal law prohibits the federal government from dictating what schools can teach. Eighteen states have implemented restrictions on teachings about critical race theory, racism and sexism, according toEducation Week. Teachings about gender ideology and critical race theory the idea that racial bias is embedded in all aspects of modern society have become a target for conservatives in recent years, leading to so-called  book bans  in schools and legislative showdowns at the state level.
Key Background
Trump has signed numerous executive orders to roll back transgender inclusivity. In a speech immediately after being sworn in, Trump said the federal government would implement a policy that there are only two genders, male and female, eliminating a Biden-era program that allowed people to mark their gender as  X  on passport applications. He also reinstituted a ban from his first term on transgender peopleserving in the militaryand on Tuesdaysigned an orderthat halts federal funding for gender-transition surgeries for people under the age of 19.
Further Reading
Trump Expected To Sign Executive Orders Banning DEI, Transgender Service Members From Military(Forbes)
Trump s Executive Orders: Here Are All His Big Day-One Actions On Immigration, Energy, TikTok And More (Forbes)
Trump Signs Executive Order Aimed At Barring Gender Transitions For People Under 19 (Forbes)

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
