




telegraph.co.uk
February 1, 2025 Saturday 1:30 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 876 words
Byline: By Sam Ashworth-Hayes
Highlight: Triggering a trade war with his allies won’t make America stronger
Body


To date, the second Trump presidency has been everything the Right could have asked for. The grotesque overreach of the American state is being cut back. DEI initiatives are out. Funding for the Left’s political messaging is out too. But every victory is bought at a price, and the bill for these early successes is now due.
Trump has   from Canada and Mexico, and 10 per cent on goods from China. The EU is also in his sights, with the President promising to “absolutely” impose tariffs on a bloc that he believes has treated the US “terribly”. And other tariffs appear set to be imposed on “all forms of medicine and pharmaceuticals”, steel, and chips.
Trump is a businessman at heart, and it’s often useful to view his phrasing through the lens of a real-estate mogul engaged in negotiations: “This is the worst deal ever. Terrible. No way. I’m walking away – 5 per cent off? Done. Pleasure doing business with you”. In the case of Canada and Mexico, what Trump appears to want is in part greater cooperation in fighting illegal migration and the flow of drugs into the United States, and he’s willing to take some economic bumps in the short-term if it results in greater pressure on his partners.
But Trump also has a long-standing obsession with the US balance of trade that economists tend to roll their eyes at. His idea that the US is “losing $200 billion a year” to Canada is half legitimate grievance – frustration at propping up allies with defence spending – and part the idea that trade deficits weaken states. His intention appears to be propping up domestic manufacturing by raising the cost of imports, and in doing so to strengthen the balance of trade.
This is likely to prove an error. A trade deficit with one country says very little about a country’s overall prosperity. I run a surplus with the Telegraph, which pays me to write, and a deficit with Tesco, which does not. I have absolutely no intention of quitting this job in order to work as a cashier, even though it would erase said deficit. Specialising and diversifying has made me better off, and the same principle applies to countries.
And when countries run overall deficits, the cause is less a rigged trading system than a swollen state; the idea that government deficits require financing weighing on domestic investment and the balance of trade is well established. If Trump wants to achieve net zero imports, he should continue cutting the state rather than raising barriers to trade.
The first set of Trump tariffs in 2018 proved bruising to all involved. The Tax Foundation in the United States has estimated that the steps taken against Canada and Mexico alone are likely to knock 0.3 per cent off US GDP, and wipe out 286,000 jobs, with another 0.1 per cent of GDP lost to the steps against China. Against this, the US would raise around $100 billion in tax revenue each year.
This is not a great deal for the American taxpayer, even before taking into account the damage these measures could do to the international structure of trade, potentially triggering retaliation and undermining the World Trade Organisation rules that govern interstate commerce.
It would be bad news for Britain, too. We’re already in the firing line for the new tax on medicines, exporting as we do £8.8 billion of pharmaceuticals to the USA each year. A wider trade war would be disruptive to our economic model, and might end up forcing Starmer to .  There are no prizes for guessing which he is likely to choose, or how high the dynamic costs might be.
None of this is to say that Trump’s tariffs are all bad. There can be arguments in favour. You might think an industry displays “learning by doing” effects, where experience leads to greater performance over time, and a period of protection can provide the time and space for these gains to occur, or that there are spillovers between industries that can raise productivity enough to offset the losses. Trump’s focus on manufacturing suggests that this may be at least partly what he has in mind.
The best argument, however, is national security. A trade policy which makes everyone richer does not necessarily make you safer. If Xi Jinping offers to build your jets, build your ships, forge your steel and design your microchips, it is entirely rational to say “under absolutely no circumstances whatsoever” even if he’s offering amazing prices (arguably, particularly if he’s offering amazing prices). What’s a source of wealth one day turns into a hard power differential the next, and a bruising loss of power and prosperity the day after that. As Elbridge Colby, now US Undersecretary for Defense, wrote in these pages in 2023, “America must first and foremost ensure that it can defeat China in a conflict”.
Tariffs on trade with China and an early partial decoupling make a lot of sense if Trump believes a conflict with Beijing is likely. Equally, tariffs on semiconductors and attempts to onshore production make more sense if Taiwan and its fabs appear to be at risk. It would be better for everyone if these latest tariffs turn out to be a negotiating position, rather than a precursor to something larger.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
