



thetimes.co.uk
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 11:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1522 words
Byline: Bevan Hurley, New York
Highlight: The president abolished diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, calling them ‘illegal and immoral’. The order could affect tens of thousands of jobs
Body


President Trump has vowed to rid the federal government of “discriminatory” diversity, equity and inclusion programmes.
In a series of executive orders, Trump, 78, tore up Biden-era initiatives to elevate workers from diverse and underrepresented backgrounds in the federal bureaucracy and US military.
The approach has been both sweeping and surgical. Hundreds of employees have been placed on leave, and affirmative action efforts that date back to the civil rights era have been upended. 
The new Department of Government Efficiency, led by Elon Musk, is said to be looking to slash more than $120 billion in annual DEI spending.
“[Trump] directed all federal agencies to terminate illegal DEI programmes to help return America to a merit-based society,” said 

, the White House press secretary, at a briefing on Tuesday.
Here we examine Trump’s war on DEI.
                   What is DEI?                   
Diversity, equity and inclusion programmes refer to efforts to remove barriers and improve access to work and higher education to people from minority and underrepresented backgrounds, races and genders. 
DEI’s roots in the federal government can be traced back to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which laid the framework for the removal of discriminatory practices in schools and the workplace. 
In 2021, Biden signed an executive order to promote DEI programmes across every sector of the federal government. 
The order included actions such as offering free “gender-affirming healthcare” for members of the military, anti-bias training and grants for farmers from ethnic minorities. 
                   What has Trump done so far?                   
Trump has described the programmes as discriminatory, and insisted on restoring strictly “merit-based” hiring across government. 
With the stroke of his pen, Trump abolished diversity, equity and inclusion jobs and performance requirements, calling them “illegal and immoral discrimination programmes”.
Chief diversity officers and anyone who had worked on “equity initiatives” or in “environmental justice” was placed on paid leave as of last Wednesday and will eventually be laid off. 
The president’s order also called for investigations into DEI programmes at universities with endowments of more than $1 billion. This would include Ivy League institutions such as Harvard, Yale and Princeton.
                   How many government jobs will be affected?                    
Anyone who complies with anti-discrimination practices is in the firing line. Experts said this could include employees in human resourcses, managers involved in hiring and firing, setting pay or training, and inspectors. 
The sprawling federal bureaucracy contains 15 executive departments and more than 2,000 agencies, meaning the order could affect tens of thousands of jobs. 

As of Sunday, 395 government employees had been placed on leave, a senior administration official told Fox News. In response, institutions have moved to strip DEI references from their websites and rewrite job descriptions.
“It’s not like there’s some magic list somewhere that you can look at that tells you which DEI programmes are legal and illegal,” said David Glasgow, the executive director of the Meltzer Center for Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging at New York University. “So that’s already creating a lot of confusion.”
Trump also ordered the Department of Justice to investigate private companies that pursue training and hiring practices that conservative critics believe to be discriminatory against non-minority groups such as white men.
The Office of Personnel Management has set up a tip line to encourage workers to report efforts to disguise DEI programmes through “coded or imprecise language”. The letter threatens “adverse consequences” if federal workers fail to blow the whistle.
                   How much will the government save from                    
cutting 
                   DEI programmes?                   
Musk said his department hoped to save up to $2 trillion from the federal budget. Within days of its creation, the department announced the cancellation of approximately $420 million in running or impending contracts. 
On Monday, the White House said it 

 and any programmes that related to “DEI, woke gender ideology and the green new deal social engineering policies”. 
The directive could affect federal aid for healthcare research, disaster relief and loans to small businesses and state governments.
The Trump administration also requires tens of thousands of private companies that are contracted by the federal government to certify that they do not operate any “unlawful forms of DEI”.
According to a review of the Department of Education budget last year, several billion dollars worth of programmes could fall into Trump’s crosshairs.
The department’s budget included $100 million to foster “diverse schools”; $178 million for civil rights enforcement; $1.2 billion for immigrant and indigenous English language programmes; $149 million for reducing “racial isolation” in schools with predominantly black and Latino students; and $84 million for a programme to address teacher shortages and increasing “diversity of the educator workforce”. 
                   How will Trump’s actions affect the US military?                   
At the start of his second week in office, Trump signed an executive order which 

 from the military and prohibited the use of “invented” pronouns. 
The order is estimated to affect between 8,000 and 15,000 personnel. Trump also issued a ban on “discriminatory race or sex-based preferences” within the military, the Department of Defence and the Department of Homeland Security.
During his confirmation hearing for secretary of defence, Pete Hegseth promised to tear out DEI “root and branch” from the US military.
On his first day on the job, Hegseth suggested that military bases that were renamed under the Biden administration due to their links to Confederate generals would revert to their original names.
                   A broader societal backlash                    
The Trump administration’s initiatives are part of a broader societal and legal pushback.
In 2023, the Supreme Court ruled that colleges and universities could no longer consider race in student admissions applications. 
A concerted pressure campaign through conservative social media influencers and Republicans in Washington led to product boycotts of brands that associated themselves with DEI initiatives.
In recent months, companies such as McDonald’s, Ford, Boeing, Walmart, Amazon and Meta have abandoned or rolled back DEI initiatives. 
Robby Starbuck, a conservative film-maker who led a campaign to force publicly listed companies to ditch DEI initiatives, said Trump’s executive orders were part of a “shock and awe campaign” to reimagine the federal bureaucracy.
“This is an ideological war and you have to know which levers of power to pull,” said Starbuck. “I think it will continue for some time, to flood the zone with every lever of power being pulled to change the trajectory of our country to one that brings us back to excellence,” he said.
Starbuck said he expected to see the Department of Justice start to pursue companies for violating the existing anti-discrimination laws.
“There is a massive wave of companies who have violated the law when it comes to not hiring or firing on the basis of race,” he added. “I think they’ll make examples out of certain companies.”
                   ‘A systematic purge’                   
According to the American Civil Liberties Union, the use of vague and threatening language in 

’s executive orders was a clear strategy to “bully everyone into dropping programmes that ensure equitable workplaces”.
“It’s a systematic purge,” said Glasgow, from NYU. “People are nervous, even outside of the government, about whether or not they should be adjusting their job titles.”
Glasgow said that affirmative action efforts had been ingrained over decades and would be difficult to undo over night. 
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives appeared to change the job title of its chief diversity officer, Lisa T Boykin, to “senior executive” in the days after the orders were announced.
An ATF spokesman said: “We have proactively taken the necessary steps to ensure compliance with this guidance, including by placing impacted personnel on administrative leave.”
                   What do Americans think about DEI?                   
In 2023, a Pew Research Center study found that opinions on DEI were sharply divided along political lines. Some 56 per cent of employed American adults felt that DEI programmes in the workplace were a good thing. About 17 per cent of workers said it was bad, and 28 per cent said it was neither good nor bad. 
For Republican and Republican-leaning supporters, 30 per cent were in favour, compared with 78 per cent among Democrats.
Around 60 per cent said their workplace used DEI policies to ensure fairness in hiring, pay and promotions.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper; Web Publication

Journal Code: WEBTTO

Subject: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (94%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (93%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (92%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MINORITY GROUPS (89%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & AUTHORITIES (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RACE & ETHNICITY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (78%); COMPENSATION & BENEFITS (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); MERIT PAY (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS & CIVIL LIBERTIES LAW (76%); DISCRIMINATION IN EDUCATION (72%); WORKER CATEGORIES (72%)

Company:  ROOTS CORP (68%)

Ticker: ROOT (TSX) (68%)

Industry: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (68%); SIC7041 ORGANIZATION HOTELS & LODGING HOUSES, ON MEMBERSHIP BASIS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (79%); ELON MUSK (79%)

Geographic: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
