




Financial Times (London, England)
January 31, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, European Edition


Copyright 2025 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 4
Length: 513 words
Byline: STEFF CHÁVEZ
Body


Donald Trump blamed Democrats and diversity, equity and inclusion policies for a collision between a commercial jet and military helicopter that killed 67 people just outside of Washington.
Without citing evidence, the president said that his "common sense" initial assessment was that the collision was caused by lax safety standards as a result of DEI policies.
"There are no survivors", Trump told reporters yesterday as he took the podium in the White House press briefing room for the first time.
The regional American Airlines flight, which was operated by its subsidiary, PSA Airlines, had originated in Wichita, Kansas. The Bombardier CRJ700 jet was making its approach into Washington Reagan National Airport on Wednesday night when it collided with a US army Sikorsky H-60 Black Hawk helicopter, plunging into the Potomac river.
The fuselage of the commercial jet was found in three pieces in the water. The American flight had 60 passengers and four crew members on board, while three soldiers were in the Black Hawk.
Trump, who was flanked by his vicepresident and newly sworn in secretaries of defence and transportation, began his remarks with an appeal for unity in "a moment of anguish", when "the differences between Americans fade to nothing".
But he launched into a political attack against Democrats, saying that ex-presidents Barack Obama and Joe Biden had lowered standards for who was allowed to qualify to be an air traffic controller.
"I put safety first, Obama, Biden and the Democrats put policy first ... and their politics was even worse."
He said that "for an air traffic controller, we want the brightest, the smartest, the sharpest. We want somebody that's psychologically superior", adding that "I don't think" people with "severe disabilities" should be air traffic controllers.
After appearing to blame air traffic controllers for the accident, he then turned his attention to the crew of the Black Hawk. "You had a pilot problem from the standpoint of the helicopter, because it was visual. It was a very clear night ... the American Airlines plane had lights blazing," Trump said. "I have helicopters. You can stop a helicopter very quickly. It had the ability to go up or down, had the ability to turn, and the turn it made was not the correct one."
US defence officials said the Black Hawk was being flown by an experienced crew on routine training.
Trump said investigators were trying to determine whether the troops were using night vision equipment, which "may change your view" from the cockpit. A US defence official said the army could not confirm whether the crew was wearing night vision goggles.
Defence secretary Pete Hegseth said the three soldiers in the helicopter "were on a routine annual night flight retraining on a standard corridor for a continuity of government mission".
Officials said 28 bodies had been recovered from the American flight and one body from the Black Hawk. Trump said Russian citizens were aboard the flight and that the US would facilitate the repatriation of their bodies. Additional reporting by Felicia Schwartz

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
