




MailOnline
January 21, 2025 Tuesday 5:24 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 560 words
Byline: Jon Michael Raasch, U.S. Political Reporter On Capitol Hill
Body


Ratcliffe served as director of national intelligence during Trump's first term
CLICK HERE: Sign up for DailyMail.com's daily U.S. politics newsletter
Former director of national intelligence John Ratcliffe has been confirmed by the Senate to become the next CIA director. 
The former DNI and Texas congressman received bipartisan vote 74-25 on Thursday several days after the Senate Intelligence Committee advanced his nomination.
He is the second of Donald Trump's Cabinet selections to get confirmed by the Senate after Marco Rubio was unanimously confirmed Monday evening. 
National security Cabinet positions are traditionally the first to be filled and Ratcliffe and Rubio's confirmations are no exception. 
However, the process of getting Ratcliffe confirmed hit a hiccup this week as Democrats held up the vote. 
They spoke and filibustered the nominee prolonging the amount of time it took to get the CIA director installed. 
The ex-lawmaker is expected to immediately address diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives at the spy agency, insiders have recently revealed to DailyMail.com. 
'I suspect Ratcliffe is going to come in like a wrecking ball to the woke deep staters,' said a source familiar with his plans. 
'No more politicized intelligence products. No more social experiments,' they continued, adding 'the mission is all he cares about.' 
Rated as one of the most conservative members during his tenure in Congress, Ratcliffe spent time on the House Intelligence Committee before being tapped to serve in Trump's first administration.
When getting confirmed for DNI in 2020 many Democratic lawmakers held reservations about Ratcliffe over their perception he would seek to politicize the office. 
When sitting through his CIA confirmation hearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., expressed he held similar concerns. 
He asked Ratcliffe if he 'will resist efforts to fire or force out career CIA employees because of their perceived political views' and that he will 'not ask these employees to place loyalty to a political figure above loyalty to country.' 
The former congressman reassured the worried Democrat he would not. 
'If you look at my record and my record as DNI, that never took place,' Ratcliffe responded. 'That is never something anyone alleged.'
'It's something that I would never do,' he added. 
In total 21 Democrats ended up voting for Ratcliffe Thursday, many more Democrats than Ratcliffe's senator confirmation vote for DNI in 2020 where he received no bipartisan support. 
Speaking on the Senate floor Tuesday morning before the vote Senate Majority Leader John Thune noted that Ratcliffe is the right man for the job. 
'Mr. Ratcliffe, like Secretary Rubio, earned bipartisan support after his confirmation hearing last week,' Thune said.
'He will bring valuable knowledge and experience to his new post, including from his time on the House Intelligence Committee and as director of National intelligence in the first trump administration.' 
Next on the docket are Department of Homeland Security nominee Kristi Noem and Defense Department secretary nominee Pete Hegseth. Both are roles with national pressing national security implications. 
However, as Rubio and Ratcliffe were widely seen as some of the most qualified candidates, the upcoming votes for Noem and Hegseth may be more tenuous. 

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
