




Targeted News Service
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 7:47 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 858 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Sen. Tommy Tuberville, R-Alabama, issued the following news release:
* * *
Tuberville Gets Gavel for HELP Subcommittee on Education and the American Family
WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Tommy Tuberville (R-AL) today announced he will serve as Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Subcommittee on Education and the American Family. Last Congress, Sen. Tuberville served as Ranking Member of this Subcommittee, which was previously the Subcommittee on Children and Families. As Chairman, one of Senator Tuberville's first actions was renaming the Subcommittee to reflect two things Alabamians hold dear: education and family values.
As Chairman, Senator Tuberville will empower parents to make the best educational decisions for their children, fight to preserve Title IX protections for women and girls, end woke curriculum in schools, and invest in workforce development and job training programs to set our young people up for success.
Senator Tuberville made the following statement about his appointment as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Education and the American Family:
"As a former educator, coach, and mentor for more than 40 years, I know firsthand that education is the key to unlocking opportunity. Unfortunately, our education system has been failing our kids. As of the most recent data, we're 26th in the world in math and 6th in reading. That's unacceptable.
As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Education and the American Family, I am laser-focused on creating more high-quality education options for students that fit their unique needs and unlock their God-given potential, rather than forcing everyone into a one-size-fits-all system. This is why I've consistently advocated for school choice during my time in the U.S. Senate.
I will also continue fighting to protect women's sports and ensure Title IX protections remain in place for women and girls everywhere. Title IX is one of the best pieces of legislation to ever come through Congress, however, it has been under attack. Thanks to President Trump's Executive Order, women and girls' sports are now protected, but Executive Orders can be reversed. I will keep fighting for the Senate to pass my bill, the Protection of Women and Girls in Sports Act, to make President Trump's Executive Order permanent.
We also need to get rid of woke gender ideology, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI), and Critical Race Theory (CRT) curriculum that has infected our schools. Children should be able to go to school and learn to read, write, and think for themselves--not be indoctrinated by a left-wing agenda. President Trump made it clear on day one in office that there are two genders--male and female--and divisive, racist DEI ideology has no place in America.
On the higher education side, our country needs to do a much better job of preparing students to enter the workforce. That starts by recognizing not everyone needs to attend a traditional four-year college, but everyone has the right to such an opportunity. Career and technical education programs like dual enrollment, apprenticeships, and short-term certifications should be recognized as the respectable paths for opportunity that they are, not treated as second-rate."
Subcommittee on Education and the American Family:
The Senate Subcommittee on Education and the American Family is tasked with all issues involving children and families, including education, child care and support, foster care and adoption, youth mental health, workforce development and more.
As Ranking Member on this subcommittee, Senator Tuberville will be well-positioned to work on these Alabama-specific issues:
* Empowering Alabama parents and families to make the best educational choices for their children.
* Fighting to preserve Title IX protections for women and girls everywhere.
* Getting rid of woke gender ideology, DEI, and anti-American CRT teaching in our schools.
* Investing in workforce education and job training to ensure students are prepared to enter the workforce.
Senator Tuberville will also serve on the HELP Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety.
Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety:
The Senate Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety is tasked with workplace education and training, worker health and safety, wage and hour laws, and workplace flexibility.
Senator Tuberville's position on this subcommittee will enable him to work on these Alabama-specific issues:
* Empowering effective workforce development programs to grow Alabama's workforce.
* Protecting Alabama's economy from federal overreach that would undermine innovation and growth in the labor sector.
* Ensuring Alabama's industries can partner with local education institutions to help build the workforce of the future.
Senator Tommy Tuberville represents Alabama in the United States Senate and is a member of the Senate Armed Services, Agriculture, Veterans' Affairs, Aging, and HELP Committees.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9049868 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
