




States News Service
February 12, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 795 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by Alabama Senator Tommy Tuberville:
U.S. SenatorTommy Tuberville(R-AL) today announced he will serve as Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Subcommittee on Education and the American Family.Last Congress, Sen. Tuberville served asRanking Memberof this Subcommittee, which was previously the Subcommittee on Children and Families. As Chairman, one of Senator Tuberville's first actions was renaming the Subcommittee to reflect two things Alabamians hold dear: education and family values.
As Chairman, Senator Tuberville willempower parents tomakethebest educationaldecisions for their children, fight to preserve Title IX protections for women and girls, end woke curriculum in schools, and invest in workforce development and job training programs to set our young people up for success.
Senator Tuberville made the following statement about his appointment as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Education and the American Family:
"As a former educator, coach, and mentor for more than 40 years, I know firsthand that education is the key to unlocking opportunity. Unfortunately, our education system has been failing our kids. As of the most recent data, we're26thin the world in math and6thin reading. That's unacceptable.
As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Education and the American Family, I am laser-focused on creating more high-quality education options for students that fit their unique needs and unlock their God-given potential, rather than forcing everyone into a one-size-fits-all system. This is why I'veconsistently advocatedfor school choice during my time in the U.S. Senate.
I will also continue fighting to protect women's sports and ensure Title IX protections remain in place for women and girls everywhere. Title IX is one of the best pieces of legislation to ever come through Congress, however, it has been under attack. Thanks to President Trump'sExecutive Order, women and girls' sports are now protected, but Executive Orders can be reversed. I will keep fighting for the Senate to pass my bill,theProtection of Women and Girls in Sports Act, to make President Trump's Executive Order permanent.
We also need to get rid ofwokegender ideology, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI), and Critical Race Theory (CRT) curriculum that has infected our schools. Children should be able to go to school and learn to read, write, and think for themselvesnot be indoctrinated by a left-wing agenda. President Trump made it clear on day one in office that there are two gendersmale and femaleand divisive, racist DEI ideology has no place in America.
On the higher education side, our country needs to do a much better job of preparing students to enter the workforce. That starts by recognizing not everyone needs to attend a traditional four-year college, but everyone has the right to such an opportunity.Career and technical education programs like dual enrollment, apprenticeships, and short-term certifications should berecognizedas the respectable paths for opportunity that they are, not treated as second-rate."
Subcommittee on Education and the American Family:
TheSenate Subcommittee onEducation and the American Familyis tasked with all issues involving children and families, including education, child care and support, foster care and adoption, youth mental health, workforce development and more.
As Ranking Member on this subcommittee, Senator Tuberville will bewell-positioned to work on these Alabama-specific issues:
EmpoweringAlabama parents and families to make the best educational choices for their children.
Fightingto preserve Title IX protections for women and girls everywhere.
Getting rid of wokegender ideology,DEI, and anti-AmericanCRTteaching in our schools.
Investing inworkforce educationand job training to ensure students are prepared to enter the workforce.
Senator Tuberville will also serve onthe HELP Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety.
Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety:
TheSenate Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safetyis tasked with workplace education and training, worker health and safety, wage and hour laws, and workplace flexibility.
Senator Tuberville's position on this subcommittee will enable him to work on these Alabama-specific issues:
Empowering effective workforce development programs to grow Alabama's workforce.
Protecting Alabama's economy from federal overreach that would undermine innovation and growth in the labor sector.
Ensuring Alabama's industries can partner with local education institutions to help build the workforce of the future.
Senator TommyTubervillerepresents Alabama intheUnited StatesSenateandisa memberoftheSenateArmed Services, Agriculture, Veterans' Affairs,Aging,and HELP Committees.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
