




Targeted News Service
February 19, 2025 Wednesday 9:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 796 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Sen. Tommy Tuberville, R-Alabama, issued the following news release:
* * *
Tuberville, Scott Lead Legislation to Restore Merit-Based Hiring
WASHINGTON - Yesterday, U.S. Senator Tommy Tuberville (R-AL) joined U.S. Senator Rick Scott (R-FL) in introducing the Restore Merit to Government Service Act, to bring merit-based hiring back to the federal government and ensure the best-qualified candidates are working in the federal government. This legislation codifies President Trump's Executive Order last month to end discriminatory hiring practices in the federal government and restore merit-based hiring requirements at all federal agencies.
"We must wash our hands of DEI," said Senator Tuberville. "Joe Biden and Kamala Harris nearly destroyed the fabric of our country with this woke, racist ideology. We need to focus on hiring the best and brightest, not dividing people based on skin color. Thank God President Trump is restoring merit-based hiring practices to our government, and prioritizing the recruitment of individuals who uphold the ideals of our nation. Now Congress must do our job to ensure that this poisonous ideology has no place in our government."
"For years, Democrats have pushed radicalized policies into the innermost workings of our government, spending tax dollars against Americans' own best interests. President Trump is right -- in order to make the federal government work best for the American people, the federal workforce must hire based on merit above all else. Just like in any business and any job outside of the federal government, our federal agencies should be choosing the best-qualified candidate to show up and get to work for the American people. I encourage my colleagues to pass this good bill that codifies the President's action so we can make Washington work better for American families," said Senator Scott.
BACKGROUND:
On January 21, 2025, President Trump signed executive actions to reform the federal hiring process and end illegal discrimination in hiring to restore merit-based opportunity at all federal agencies.
* The Restore Merit to Government Service Act of 2025 :
* Restores Merit to the Hiring Process: Prioritizes the recruitment of individuals who are committed to improving the efficiency of the federal government, upholding the rule of law and the Constitution of the United States and are passionate about the ideals of our nation.
* Eliminates DEI Hiring: Prevents the appointment of any individual based on race, sex or religion.
* Updates Hiring Procedures: Improves the overall hiring process for individuals by establishing a hiring timeline of no more than 80 days, offers a more streamlined communications process with candidates and integrates modern technology to support agencies with the recruitment and selection process. This legislation ensures that the heads, or designees, of agencies are active participants in the new processes.
* Holds Agencies Accountable: The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish performance metrics to evaluate the success of the new hiring procedures.
MORE:
Tuberville, Schmitt Introduce Legislation To Dismantle DEI
Tuberville Supporting Elimination of DEI, Restoration of Lethality in Armed Forces
Tuberville Introduces Bill to Boost American Manufacturing, Remove Woke DEI Requirements from CHIPS Act
Tuberville Urges Senate to Confirm Hegseth and Rollins, Secure American Farmland with the FARM Act
Tuberville: "It's a New Day in America, Greatness Awaits Us if We Answer the Call of the American People"
Tuberville Questions Hegseth, Encourages Him to Represent War Fighters, Not Warmongers as Secretary of Defense
Sen. Tuberville Delivers Wins for Alabama in 118th Congress, Will be Sledgehammer for President Trump in Next Congress
Tuberville Secures Major Wins for Alabama and Military
Tuberville: "We need a military that is 100% focused on protecting our country and enhancing national security."
ICYMI: Tuberville Op-ed: Pete Hegseth, the Change Agent America Needs to Clean up the DOD
ICYMI: Tuberville Joins Kudlow to Discuss Meeting with SecDef Nominee
ICYMI: Tuberville in the Daily Caller: The Dangerous Biden-Harris Plan to Leave Our Veterans Behind
ICYMI: Tuberville Joins Fox Business to Discuss Biden-Harris Administration's Slow FEMA Response
ICYMI: Tuberville Joins "Mornings with Maria" to Discuss Secret Service Leadership Failures, Kamala Harris' Bad Economic Policies
Senator Tommy Tuberville represents Alabama in the United States Senate and is a member of the Senate Armed Services, Agriculture, Veterans' Affairs, HELP, and Aging Committees.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9062178 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: February 19, 2025


End of Document
