




Targeted News Service
January 28, 2025 Tuesday 9:17 PM  EST


Copyright 2025 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved


Length: 349 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


Sen. Tommy Tuberville, R-Alabama, issued the following news release:
* * *
Tuberville Supporting Elimination of DEI, Restoration of Lethality in Armed Forces
WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Senator Tommy Tuberville (R-AL) issued a statement in support of President Donald Trump's latest executive orders restoring lethality to the United States Armed Forces.
"For the past four years, I have sounded the alarm about Joe Biden and the far-left, progressive Democrats politicizing our military," said Senator Tuberville. "As a result, recruitment has fallen to the lowest levels since before World War II. We need our military to be a fighting machine, not a playground for Democrats' culture war. Thankfully, change is here. Yesterday's executive orders from President Donald Trump eliminate DEI in the military, reinstate service members discharged for refusing the COVID vaccine, and ensure military standards are updated to prioritize readiness, restore lethality, and build confidence in our Armed Forces. With President Trump and Secretary Hegseth at the helm, our military will be 100% focused on protecting our country and putting America First on the world stage."
MORE:
Tuberville: "We need a military that is 100% focused on protecting our country and enhancing national security."
ICYMI: Tuberville op-ed: "Biden is Infecting Our Military With Woke Politics While the World Implodes"
Tuberville Questioned Army Officials on Lasting Effects of Vaccine Policy on the Military
Tuberville, Colleagues Help Secure Provision To Protect Servicemembers From COVID Vaccine Mandate In 2023 NDAA
Tuberville Questions Pentagon about COVID Vaccine Military Discharge
Tuberville Demands Answers on Military's Vaccine Mandate
Senator Tommy Tuberville represents Alabama in the United States Senate and is a member of the Senate Armed Services, Agriculture, Veterans' Affairs, HELP, and Aging Committees.
***
Original text here: 
Copyright Targeted News Services
MSTRUCK-9020600 MSTRUCK

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
