




States News Service
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 742 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by Alabama Senator Tommy Tuberville:
Yesterday, U.S. Senator Tommy Tuberville (R-AL)joined U.S. Senator Rick Scott (R-FL) in introducing theRestore Merit to Government Service Act, to bringmerit-based hiring back to the federal government and ensure the best-qualified candidates are working in the federal government. This legislation codifies President Trump's Executive Order last month to end discriminatory hiring practices in the federal government and restore merit-based hiring requirements at all federal agencies.
"We must wash our hands of DEI,"said Senator Tuberville."Joe Biden and Kamala Harris nearly destroyed the fabric of our country with this woke, racist ideology. We need to focus on hiring the best and brightest, not dividing people based on skin color. Thank God President Trump is restoring merit-based hiring practices to our government, and prioritizing the recruitment of individuals who uphold the ideals of our nation. Now Congress must do our job to ensure that this poisonous ideology has no place in our government."
"For years, Democrats have pushed radicalized policies into the innermost workings of our government, spending tax dollars against Americans' own best interests. President Trump is right in order to make the federal government work best for the American people, the federal workforce must hire based on merit above all else. Just like in any business and any job outside of the federal government, our federal agencies should be choosing the best-qualified candidate to show up and get to work for the American people. I encourage my colleagues to pass this good bill that codifies the President's action so we can make Washington work better for American families,"said Senator Scott.
BACKGROUND:
On January 21, 2025,President Trump signed executive actions toreformthe federal hiring process and end illegal discrimination in hiring torestoremerit-based opportunity at all federal agencies.
TheRestore Merit to Government Service Act of 2025:
Restores Merit to the Hiring Process: Prioritizes the recruitment of individuals who are committed to improving the efficiency of the federal government, upholding the rule of law and the Constitution of the United States and are passionate about the ideals of our nation.
Eliminates DEI Hiring: Prevents the appointment of any individual based on race, sex or religion.
Updates Hiring Procedures: Improves the overall hiring process for individuals by establishing a hiring timeline of no more than 80 days, offers a more streamlined communications process with candidates and integrates modern technology to support agencies with the recruitment and selection process. This legislation ensures that the heads, or designees, of agencies are active participants in the new processes.
Holds Agencies Accountable: The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish performance metrics to evaluate the success of the new hiring procedures.
MORE:
Tuberville, Schmitt Introduce Legislation ToDismantle DEI
Tuberville Supporting Elimination of DEI, Restoration of Lethality in Armed Forces
Tuberville Introduces Bill toBoost American Manufacturing, Remove Woke DEI Requirements from CHIPS Act
Tuberville Urges Senate to Confirm Hegseth and Rollins, Secure American Farmland with theFARMAct
Tuberville: "It's a New Day in America, Greatness Awaits Us if We Answer the Call of the American People"
TubervilleQuestions Hegseth, Encourages Him toRepresent War Fighters, Not Warmongers as Secretary of Defense
Sen. Tuberville Delivers Wins for Alabama in 118thCongress, Will be Sledgehammer for President Trump in Next Congress
Tuberville Secures Major Wins for Alabama andMilitary
Tuberville: "We need a military that is 100% focused on protecting our country and enhancing national security."
ICYMI:TubervilleOp-ed: Pete Hegseth, the Change Agent America Needs to Clean up the DOD
ICYMI:TubervilleJoins Kudlow to Discuss Meeting with SecDef Nominee
ICYMI: Tuberville in the Daily Caller: The Dangerous Biden-Harris Plan to Leave Our Veterans Behind
ICYMI: TubervilleJoins Fox Business to Discuss Biden-Harris Administration's Slow FEMA Response
ICYMI: Tuberville Joins "Mornings with Maria" toDiscuss Secret Service Leadership Failures, Kamala Harris' Bad Economic Policies
Senator TommyTubervillerepresents Alabama intheUnited StatesSenateandisa member of the SenateArmed Services,Agriculture, Veterans' Affairs, HELP, andAging Committees.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
