




The Daily Caller
January 27, 2025 Monday 11:10 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: NATIONAL-SECURITY; us
Length: 662 words
Byline: Eireann Van Natta, Intelligence State Reporter, 
Body



Tulsi Gabbard was allegedly placed on a terror watchlist and subject to surveillance - then President Trump nominated her to oversee the intelligence community as Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Gabbard will work to “end the politicization of the intelligence community,” her team told the Caller.
In 2024, whistleblowers disclosed that the TSA and Federal Air Marshals (FAM) were surveilling Gabbard while she was . They alleged that she was placed on a TSA suspected terrorist watch list known as the “Quiet Skies” program. 
Gabbard informed Matt Taibi's  that she and her husband endured “random” searches at airports that lasted up to 45 minutes.
“It happened every time I boarded,” Gabbard told the outlet.
 CNN's Dana Bash promised me and the American people that she would “definitely follow up on” my being added to the secret terror watch list Quiet Skies. She never did report on this political retaliation by the Harris Administration, because it would completely undermine their... 
 - Tulsi Gabbard  (@TulsiGabbard) 
Their boarding passes were also marked with “SSSS” or “Secondary Security Screening Selection,” which typically signifies that the individual has been placed on a threat list, according to Taibi.
The FAM uses Quiet Skies on individuals “who may present an elevated risk to aviation security,” according to the TSA's .
Gabbard has expressed  of the intelligence community's surveillance efforts in the past, specifically concerning the National Security Agency's (NSA) “mass surveillance program.”
CNN's Katie Bo Lillis labeled her the “most publicly anti-surveillance official” to potentially head DNI.
“If confirmed, she will be perhaps the most markedly, or most publicly anti-surveillance official to ever lead the part of the U.S. government that is tasked with the part of doing surveillance on foreign entities,” Bo Lillis said. 
 How corporate media like CNN is nothing but a blind mouthpiece for CIA:
 CNN's  bashes Tulsi Gabbard because she supports limits on NSA domestic spying and Edward Snowden. She repeatedly slips in “intelligence sources tell us” to maintain a facade of neutrality: 
 - Glenn Greenwald (@ggreenwald) 
“Lt. Col. Gabbard has served our country for over two decades and has been a consumer of intelligence both as a member of Congress and as a soldier,” Gabbard's transition spokeswoman Alexa Henning told the Caller.
“She understands personally the potentially devastating consequences of flawed intelligence and the true cost of war. As DNI, she will speak truth to power, end the politicization of our intelligence community, and ensure the IC is focused on its core mission: the safety, security and freedom of the American people.”
While Gabbard has gained the endorsements of hundreds of veterans, Gabbard has also received opposition from former national security officials, many of them with ties to censorship and left-wing . 
President Obama's former CIA Director John Brennan came out  Gabbard's nomination on MSNBC. He was one of the officials who signed the  casting doubt on the New York Post's Hunter Biden laptop story - and Trump recently  his security clearances.
Gabbard's confirmation hearing has been  for Thursday at 10 a.m.
Her hearing was initially blocked by Democrats,  to a source familiar. The source alleged to the Caller that Democratic Virginia Sen. Mark Warner blocked other Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee from meeting with Gabbard.

Graphic

 
Former U.S. Representative from Hawaii Tulsi Gabbard speaks during a campaign rally with Republican presidential nominee, former U.S. President Donald Trump, at The Expo at World Market Center Las Vegas on September 13, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. As Election Day approaches, former President Trump continues on the campaign trail. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
