




MailOnline
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 4:39 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 541 words
Byline: Rob Crilly, Chief U.S. Political Correspondent For Dailymail.Com In Washington, D.C. Stephen Lepore
Body


                     Donald Trump's director of national security announced she was firing more than 100 people from 15 intelligence agencies for having sexually explicit conversations on a government messaging service.
                     Tulsi Gabbard said: 'There are over 100 people from across the intelligence community that contributed to and participated in this, what is really just an egregious violation of trust.'
She told Fox News that she had issued a directive to terminate their employment and ending their security clearances.
The Intelink chat system is run by the National Security Agency and designed for sensitive security discussions. 
This week online activists Chris Rufo and Hannah Goodman claimed that staff were using it for ' wide-ranging discussions of sex, kink, polyamory, and castration.'
These chats, according to Rufo and Goodman, were 'legitimized as part of the NSA's commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.' 
Gabbard thanked the activists for highlighting the issue and said it 'was barely scratching the surface.' 
'They were brazen in using an NSA platform intended for professional use to conduct this kind of really, really horrific behavior,' she said. 'And they were brazen in doing this because when was the last time anyone was really held accountable?'
Her spokeswoman Alexa Henning posted on X that action had been taken. 
'The DNI sent a memo directing all intelligence agencies to identify the employees who participated in the NSA's 'obscene, pornographic, and sexually explicit' chatrooms and to terminate their employment and revoke their security clearances,' she wrote.
The Central Intelligence Agency and Gabbard's office have already tried to fire dozens of employees working on diversity issues.
That move has been halted by a federal judge, who is expected to issue a ruling Thursday. 
The latest move follows Rufo and Goodman revealing transcripts of chats. 
One person bragged that having transgender surgery allowed them 'to wear leggings or bikinis without having to wear a gaff under it.' 
Others discussed laser hair removal, with one saying: '[G]etting my b***hole zapped by a laser was . . . shocking.' 
Another wrote bluntly about estrogen injections: 'Look, I just enjoy helping other people experience boobs.' 
Others talked about engaging in polyamory or ethical non-monogamy, with one claiming they were part of a nine-member polycule. 
Rufo and Goodman said their sources claim that left-wing activists 'used LGBTQ+ employee resource groups to turn their kinks and pathologies into official work duties,' with the full support of their superiors at the NSA.
Gabbard, who oversees the 18 American spy agencies, responded to the report promising to clean house and confirmed the existence of the chats, which have been destroyed.
'This behavior is unacceptable and those involved WILL be held accountable. These disgusting chat groups were immediately shut down when @POTUS issued his EO ending the DEI insanity the Biden Admin was obsessed with. Our IC must be focused on our core mission: ensuring the safety,' she wrote. 
Elon Musk also had a crack at the news and referenced his email asking workers to explain their duties each week: 'Well... at least we know what they did last week.'

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
