




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 27, 2025 Monday 12:20 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 292 words
Byline: Nick HalterKelly Tyko
Body


January 27th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Target's  
State of play: Target said in a  
It's the latest corporation to backtrack on those efforts in the wake of President Trump's election and dismantling of DEI in the federal government.
His administration said doing so would return "America to a merit based society where people are hired based on their skills, not for the color of their skin."
The latest: Twin Cites Pride, which has a long-standing partnership with Target, said in a Facebook  
"We want to ensure all of our community that Target will NOT have a presence at the festival or parade."
Flashback: After the police killing of George Floyd, Target announced it would spend $2 billion with black-owned businesses by 2025.
One of them was North Minneapolis clothing maker Houston White, who   
What they're saying: Target supplier diversity program helped Sheletta Brundidge land an advertising deal with Target on her  
"It did so much for (my) company because of the pride of being able to work with Target, and then the validation," she told Axios. "Once Target started working with me to promote their products, everybody in town was looking at me - 'Who's this girl? She's working with Target. Let's go work with her.'"


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
