




States News Service
February 18, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 794 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON, DC 
Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Department of Education:
The U.S. Department of Education has sent a Dear Colleague Letter to educational institutions receiving federal funds notifying them that they must cease using race preferences and stereotypes as a factor in their admissions, hiring, promotion, compensation, scholarships, prizes, administrative support, sanctions, discipline, and beyond.
Institutions that fail to comply may, consistent with applicable law, face investigation and loss of federal funding. The Department will begin assessing compliance beginning no later than 14 days from issuance of the letter.
"With this guidance, the Trump Administration is directing schools to end the use of racial preferences and race stereotypes in their programs and activitiesa victory for justice, civil rights laws, and the Constitution," said Acting Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights Craig Trainor. "For decades, schools have been operating on the pretext that selecting students for 'diversity' or similar euphemisms is not selecting them based on race. No longer. Students should be assessed according to merit, accomplishment, and characternot prejudged by the color of their skin. The Office for Civil Rights will enforce that commitment."
In Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard, the U.S. Supreme Court not only ended racial preferences in school admissions, but articulated a general legal principle on the law of race, color, and national origin discriminationnamely, where an educational institution treats a person of one race differently than it treats another, and race is a factor in the different treatment, the educational institution has violated the law. By allowing this principle to guide vigorous enforcement efforts, the Trump Education Department will ensure that America's educational institutions will again embrace merit, equality of opportunity, and academic and professional excellence.
The letter calls upon all educational institutions to cease illegal use of race in:
Admissions: The Dear Colleague Letter clarifies the legal framework established by the Supreme Court in Students v. Harvard; closes legal loopholes that colleges, universities, and other educational institutions with selective enrollment have been exploiting to continue taking race into account in admissions; and announces the Department's intention to enforce the law to the utmost degree. Schools that fail to comply risk losing access to federal funds.
Hiring, Compensation, Promotion, Scholarships, Prizes, Sanctions, and Discipline: Schools, including elementary, middle, and high schools, may no longer make decisions or operate programs based on race or race stereotypes in any of these categories or they risk losing access to federal funds.
The DEI regime at educational entities has been accompanied by widespread censorship to establish a repressive viewpoint monoculture on our campuses and in our schools. This has taken many forms, including deplatforming speakers who articulate a competing view, using DEI offices and "bias response teams" to investigate those who object to a school's racial ideology, and compelling speech in the form of "diversity statements" and other loyalty tests. Ending the use of race preferences and race stereotyping in our schools is therefore also an important first step toward restoring norms of free inquiry and truth-seeking.
Anyone who believes that a covered entity has violated these legal rules may file a complaint with the Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights. Information about filing a complaint with OCR is available at How to File a Discrimination Complaint with the Office for Civil Rights on the OCR website.
Background
The Supreme Court ruled in June 2023 in Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard that Harvard's and the University of North Carolina's use of racial considerations in admissions, which the universities justified on "diversity" and "representativeness" grounds, in fact operated to illegally discriminate against white and Asian applicants and racially stereotype all applicants. The Universities "concluded, wrongly, that the touchstone of an individual's identity is not challenges bested, skills built, or lessons learned but the color of their skin. Our constitutional history does not tolerate that choice," for "[t]he entire point of the Equal Protection Clause" is that "treating someone differently because of their skin color is not like treating them differently because they are from a city or from a suburb, or because they play the violin poorly or well." Rather, "an individual's race may never be used against him in the admissions process" and, in particular, "may not operate as a stereotype" in evaluating individual admissions candidates.

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
