




The Edge: University of Alaska Anchorage
February 25, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 781 words
Byline: Hannah Dillon Matthew Schmitz
Body


On Friday, the University of Alaska Board of Regents directed University of Alaska President Pat Pitney, UAA Chancellor Sean Parnell and other chancellors to take necessary action to comply with federal guidelines issued by President Trump and the Department of Education relating to DEI. 
To comply with the changes in federal guidance, the Board of Regents passed a motion that orders University of Alaska policies to be consistent with the state and federal laws starting Feb. 21. 
The University of Alaska system includes UAA, UAF and UAS.
According to the motion, all documents must be "interpreted to be consistent with, or be amended as necessary to reflect our continuing commitments to providing university programs and activities that comply with all federal and state nondiscrimination laws, regulations, orders, and guidance."
?According to an article in the Peninsula Clarion, the board said it was responding to executive orders issued by President Trump.
Jonathon Taylor, a university spokesperson, confirmed in an email to The Northern Light the vote in favor of the motion was 9-1 with Regent Albiona Selimi being the only regent not in favor. 
Regent Selimi is a student regent who is pursuing a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science at UAA.
The motion orders university leadership to, "assess the programs and operations at their respective Universities and to make changes as necessary to comply with all federal and state nondiscrimination laws, regulations, orders, and guidance."
University chancellors have been delegated to monitor and amend university websites and other material to "no longer refer to "affirmative action,""DEI" nor utilize the words "diversity," "equity," "inclusion," or other associated terms.
DEI stands for diversity, equity and inclusion, and refers to many programs aimed to help marginalized communities achieve equality in society.
Position titles will be amended to comply with federal regulations regarding any DEI variation or association, according to the motion. 
From the motion, "the assessments and modifications undertaken are intended to create and promote equal opportunity and equal access for everyone."
After the motion had been passed, Parnell released a statement on the decision through UAA student, faculty and staff emails. 
In the email, Parnell wrote that the university will comply with the Board of Regents directive in eliminating "DEI language and practices from our websites, program descriptions, strategic planning documents and institutional goals."
Parnell wrote that the process will begin immediately.
On Feb. 14, the U.S. Department of Education issued a "Dear Colleague" letter advising all educational institutions to "ensure that their policies and actions comply with existing civil rights law."
The department interpreted a 2023 Supreme Court decision that made race-based admission practices in colleges illegal as applying broadly to all race-based programing.
The department wrote, "Federal law thus prohibits covered entities from using race in decisions pertaining to admissions, hiring, promotion, compensation, financial aid, scholarships, prizes, administrative support, discipline, housing, graduation ceremonies, and all other aspects of student, academic, and campus life."
The department extended this to DEI programs at educational institutions: 
"DEI programs, for example, frequently preference certain racial groups and teach students that certain racial groups bear unique moral burdens that others do not ... Consequently, they deny students the ability to participate fully in the life of a school."
According to the letter, "Institutions that fail to comply with federal civil rights law may, consistent with applicable law, face potential loss of federal funding."
President Trump issued an executive order on Jan. 20 that directed the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management to terminate illegal DEI and DEIA "mandates, policies, programs, preferences, and activities in the Federal Government, under whatever name they appear."
While the order primarily impacts federal departments, the president directed officials to "terminate ... 'equity-related' grants or contracts; and all DEI or DEIA performance requirements for employees, contractors, or grantees."
The order also calls for the creation of a list of "Federal grantees who received Federal funding to provide or advance DEI, DEIA, or 'environmental justice' programs, services, or activities since January 20, 2021."
?According to the Associated Press, the order was blocked by a federal judge the same day the University of Alaska passed their motion.

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
