




Gator Times: University of Florida
February 24, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 513 words
Body


UF indefinitely paused all activities in six non-academic Living Learning Communities Feb. 17, just days after the Trump administration's Office for Civil Rights banned the consideration of race in any decisions made by academic institutions nationwide.
Living Learning Communities, or LLCs, were previously described as "interest-based communities of students that live together within residence halls," but the language on UF Housing's website has changed to "academic-based."
Four of the six paused communities were centered around underrepresented populations, including Black, first-generation, international and LGBTQ+ students. The remainder catered to students interested in the arts and out-of-state students.
The change comes on the heels of the U.S. Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights' order on Feb. 14 expanding the Supreme Court's 2023 ruling against affirmative action in college admissions. Under the order, the ban now encompasses "all other aspects of student, academic, and campus life," including in scholarships, administrative support, graduation ceremonies and housing.
Universities that don't comply with the order run the risk of losing federal funding.
The Trump administration's recent flurry of orders compounds with laws from Gov. Ron DeSantis and the GOP-dominated state legislature to do away with DEI programs on college campuses. DeSantis signed a bill defunding DEI initiatives and restricting courses that teach about identity politics or systemic injustices.
To fall in line with the new state legislation, UF slashed $5 million in spending toward diversity efforts last year and shut down its Center for Inclusion and Multicultural Engagement, a hub for UF students including dedicated offices for minority groups.
UF spokesperson Cynthia Roldan wrote in an email that the pause on non-academic LLCs supported the ongoing implementation of UF's 10-year plan for on-campus housing. She didn't directly answer questions about why the pause only included interest- and identity-based LLCs, whether the Trump administration's directive factored into the decision or how much funding the LLCs receive, if any.
Among the paused communities is the Lavender LLC, which was organized around themes of gender and sexuality. Established at the Springs Residential Complex in 2021, the community provided the first gender-inclusive housing arrangements at UF.
Mixed-gender suites will still be available at Springs regardless of the LLC's fate, according to a student assistant at UF Housing, but it was unclear which floors and buildings would retain those accommodations. Roldan wrote in an email that UF Housing would work with students who have "specific requests" on a case-by-case basis.
Robin Anstett, a 20-year-old computer science junior who lived at Lavender in their freshman year, said the community gave them the peace of mind that their peers would accept their gender identity when they first came out.
"Being in a space with other queer people, seeing other queer people... things like that were really meaningful to me," Anstett said.

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
