




The Guardian (London)
February 13, 2025 Thursday 6:40 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:17
Length: 6805 words
Byline: Graeme Wearden
Highlight: Britain’s services and construction sectors grew in October-December, but production contracted again… and GDP per person shrankUK economy grows by 0.1% in unexpected boost for Rachel ReevesGDP rose 0.4% in December, stronger than expectedCompetition watchdog to speed up decisions to support UK growth push
Body


block-time published-time 3.59pm GMT 
 UK GDP: the key charts  
Here’s a chart showing how UK economic growth picked up in December:

And here’s a breakdown showing the main sectors of the economy:

block-time published-time 3.53pm GMT 
 The US Department of State has removed the name of Tesla from a list of planned purchases, after an earlier version of the list said it would spend $400m buying new electric armoured vehicles, even as the carmaker’s boss, Elon Musk,   under Donald Trump. 
A procurement forecast produced by the department showed the $400m (£320m) proposed spending on “armoured   (production units)” in December. The most likely Tesla model was the Cybertruck, the company’s electric pickup, given Musk’s claims that the vehicle is bulletproof.
However, a spokesperson for the department said the document was incorrect, and should have been a generic entry reading “electric vehicle manufacturer”. The department said the order was on hold.
Nevertheless, the listing raises the possibility of more conflicts of interest for Musk, who is one of the biggest beneficiaries of US government contracts through the companies he controls.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 3.35pm GMT 
 Ukraine’s sovereign dollar bond prices have rallied for second consecutive day, on hopes that peace talks with Russia could lead to a ceasefire. 
 Reuters has the details:
Several of Ukraine’s bonds gained more than 2 cents before retracing slightly. 
The 2036 maturity led the gains, adding 2.05 cents to be bid at 68.30 cents on the dollar…
Ukraine’s bonds have rallied strongly since Trump’s re-election in November last year, and returned over 60% in 2024. That rally has continued this year, with the 2036 maturity gaining more than 9 cents since the beginning of January.
block-time published-time 2.59pm GMT 
Wall Street has opened a little higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which tracks 30 large US companies, has gained 47 points or 0.1% to 44,416 in early trading.
The S&P 500 index has gained 0.25%, while the tech-focused Nasdaq is 0.5% higher.
Investors are weighing up the prospects of peace talks in the Russia-Ukraine war, and also Donald Trump’s post earlier that he will announce reciprical tariffs today….
block-time published-time 2.43pm GMT 
 Moody's: UK avoids complete stagnation  
Credit rating agency Moody’s fears that UK growth this year will be weak, despite the economy posting a modest expansion of 0.1% at the end of 2024.
 Andrew Hunter, associate director and senior economist at Moody’s Analytics,  says:
The 0.1% quarterly rise in GDP in the fourth quarter was marginally better than we had expected and means the U.K. economy has avoided a complete stagnation over the second half of last year.
That said, the details suggest that underlying momentum remains weak, with household consumption broadly unchanged and fixed investment falling slightly. Growth was saved by positive contributions from government spending and inventory accumulation.
We still forecast growth to pick up again over the coming quarters as stronger government spending continues feeding through and monetary policy is loosened further, but we now forecast growth for 2025 as a whole of only 0.9%, in line with the figure for 2024.”
block-time published-time 2.36pm GMT 
 Oil price weakens on Ukraine peace deal hopes  
 The oil price has weakened today, after Donald Trump announced that he and   were ready to begin negotiating an end to the war in Ukraine. 
Brent crude, the international benchmark, dropped by 2.3% yesterday and lost another 1% today to as low as $74.06 per barrel, the lowest since the end of December.
US crude also fell to its lowest this year, at $70.22 per barrel.
Analysts at Saxo say:
Crude oil prices dropped all day yesterday, in part on Trump announcing that he will negotiate with Putin to end the war in Ukraine.
 Fawad Razaqzada, market analyst at  City Index,  concurs that Trump’s announcement has moved the markets:
Yesterday, markets responded positively to President Donald Trump’s discussions with Russian President Vladimir Putin, in which both leaders agreed to initiate talks aimed at ending the Ukraine war. While no concrete agreements have been reached, the mere fact that negotiations are beginning has been reflected in European asset pricing.
A potential resolution could significantly ease war-related costs, particularly in the energy sector, while reducing uncertainty and improving business confidence—an outcome that would be especially beneficial for Europe’s largest economies, and by extension the euro. 
There are concerns, though, that Washington DC has made concessions to Moscow even before talks start – by ruling out Nato membership for Ukraine, and suggesting Kyiv must forfeit some of its territory.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 2.24pm GMT 
Here’s our news story about the UK’s competition regulator pledging to “drive growth and investment” by shaking up its approach to regulation.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 2.23pm GMT 
  is bad news, reports Scott Helfstein,    ’s  head of investment strategy.
 Helfstein  says:
“While producer prices were expected to increase, producer inflation grew faster than expected. That is the bad news. The good news is that companies are still running strong profits across most sectors of the economy, which should prove more important for investors.
Prices for inputs in early-stage intermediate demand grew at the fastest pace since 2023, meaning companies are seeing raw inputs rise across goods and services. The Fed is likely going to pay attention and be cautious to see how that passes through to consumer expectations.”
block-time published-time 1.53pm GMT 
 Over in America, we have further signs that inflation is picking up. 
US producers raised their prices by 0.4% per month in January, faster than the 0.3% which Wall Street expected.
Services producers raised their prices by 0.3%, while goods prices increased by 0.6%.
Goods inflation was lifted by a 10.4% increase in diesel fuel prices, while. indexes for chicken eggs, beef and veal, gas fuels, jet fuel, and communication and related equipment also moved higher.
enltr??BREAKING: *U.S PPI 0.4% M/M, EXP. 0.3% *U.S. PPI CORE 0.3% M/M, EXP. 0.3% *U.S PPI 3.5% Y/Y, EXP. 3.2% *U.S. PPI CORE 3.6% Y/Y, EXP. 3.3%   ???????? 
 — Investing.com (@Investingcom) 
Following the rise in US consumer inflation yesterday, to 3%, this looks like another sign that inflationary pressures are not dampened.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.54pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.35pm GMT 
 Neil Baylis, a competition Partner with law firm CMS, questions whether the CMA can really change its approach to regulation to wave more mergers though. 
 Baylis says:
“The question is, will the CMA be comfortable clearing transactions that previously would have been blocked or only cleared subject to commitments?
“The statutory test has not changed. If the CMA becomes too lenient it risks being challenged by third parties who may not be so pleased to see anti-competitive transactions go through.
 Baylis  also points out that the recent moves have been to beef up the CMA’s powers, not water them down:
“It is also worth noting that there is a huge expansion in CMA powers thanks to the DMCC Act which is allowing the CMA to regulate big tech properly for the first time. The CMA’s competition investigatory powers have also been enhanced. These changes were proposed by the last Government and pointed to a more intense enforcement environment, not a lighter touch.”
block-time published-time 12.59pm GMT 
 Ed Conway of Sky News has analysed today’s UK GDP report, to show how much ground the economy has lost since the financial crisis:
enltrHere's a much better way of looking at the GDP data?? If economic growth had kept growing as it had before the 2008 crisis the economy would be 23% bigger than it is today. This is our big problem: years of sub-par growth and economic disappointment vs what we were once used to 
 — Ed Conway (@EdConwaySky) 
enltrLook at GDP per head - a better measure of living standards - and the picture is worse still. As of the latest quarter, GDP per capita was still smaller than it was in early 2019. So that's five and a bit years of lost growth 
 — Ed Conway (@EdConwaySky) 
block-time published-time 12.47pm GMT 
 Anger over Barclays CEO's bumper pay packet  
 Luke Hildyard, executive director of the High Pay Centre, a think tank focused on pay, corporate governance and responsible business, has hit out at   and high-paid investment bankers. 
 Hildyard says: 
  and the £1.2 billion spent on a few hundred investment bankers epitomise the inequality in the UK economy. Excess at the top contrasts with much wider hardship across a country plagued by stagnant growth and the aftermath of the cost of living crisis.
The £770,000 average bonus paid to 837 investment bankers is over 1,500 times the value of the £500 share award given to 90,000 Barclays employees. So for every £1,546 paid to an investment banker, an ordinary employee like a bank cashier or call centre operative or administrative worker got a quid!
It would cost Barclays about £45m to give £500 to 90,000 staff - increasing that tenfold would still equate to less than half the value of the £1.2bn spent on the pay of 800 investment bankers, or about 6% of Barclays £8bn profits.
While ordinary employees will welcome the shares, the UK government should do more to give workers more of a stake and voice in UK companies.”
 Alongside the bumper package for its CEO, Barclays made multimillion-pound payouts to its highest-earning bankers, with 762 receiving more than €1m (£833,400) in 2024.   released alongside the Barclays annual report show that 35 were paid more than €5m each, while one unidentified banker took home more than €17m (£14m), which is a third more than the chief executive’s pay packet.
block-time published-time 12.41pm GMT 
 Jambu Palaniappan, boss of Checkatrade, is concerned by the UK’s push today to make its regulators do more to support growth.
Palaniappan says:
“As a son of Silicon Valley myself, even I’m willing to question whether we want a handful of vast American firms calling the shots.
So while regulators should heed the call to catalyse growth, there are many British scale-ups keenly watching the CMA under its new ex-Amazon chair for early signals as to whether they will continue to use their powers to promote competition and consumers across digital markets.”
 Related:  
block-time published-time 12.19pm GMT 
 CMA unveils proposals to 'drive growth, investment and business confidence'  
 Britain’s competition regulator has responded to the government’s urging to support the economy, by proposing new measures to drive growth, investment and business confidence. 
Shortly after business secretary Jonathan Reynolds     CMA chief Sarah Cardell has responded by promising “a package of carefully considered proposals for rapid change”.
This follows the pressure being piled on regulators by ministers to do more to support the economy, rather than blocking deals that could help growth.
 Cardell starts by defending the CMA’s work, pointing out:
A robust, independent competition regime should both drive growth and investment, and uphold consumer interests.
That addresses worries that regulators risk harming the economy in the long run by not holding businesses to account ( everyone remembers the financial crisis, right? ).
But she also acknowledges the importance of persuading companies and investors that the UK is a great place to do business.
And Cardell says the CMA’s new strategy will focus on four Ps – ‘pace’, ‘predictability’, ‘proportionality’ and ‘process’.
On ‘ pace ’, she says the CMA will streamline and speed up its decision-making process when considering whether to allow a deal.
‘ Predictability ’ will see the CMA clarify how it interprets and applies its tests on whether a takeover should be reviewed.
On ‘ proportionality ’, Cardell says:
Our objective is for as many of the deals as possible which raise competition concerns to be cleared with effective remedies, rather than be prohibited.
And she also suggests the regulator will take “a proportionate approach to looking at global deals”, so might watch to see if other regulators will address the UK’s concerns rather than trying to amend or block a deal themselves.
For the fourth P, ‘ process’, Cardell is promising a new ‘mergers charter’ to help investors understand the regulators work, which will be published in March.
She writes:
The charter will include our firm public commitment to pace, predictability, proportionality and process, as well as laying out what will be needed - from the CMA, businesses and advisors - to ensure the success of this new approach.
 Reminder: The CMA’s chairman was forced out last month after ministers concluded that the regulator has not convinced them that it was focused enough on growth. 
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.22pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.58am GMT 
 Trump: Today Is The Big One: Reciprocal Tariffs!!!  
 Tin hats on! 
 Donald Trump has reportedly posted that ‘TODAY IS THE BIG ONE: RECIPROCAL TARIFFS!!” – signalling he will hike levies on countries who impose larger tariffs than the US on trade.
enltrUS Pres. Trump: Today Is The Big One: Reciprocal Tariffs!!! Make America Great Again!!!  
 — LiveSquawk (@LiveSquawk) 
block-time published-time 11.20am GMT 
 Train drivers on London’s Elizabeth Line to strike  
 The Labour government had been hoping to spur growth by ending the various industrial disputes that dogged the later days of their Conservative predecessors. 
But those hopes could be dashed by news that train drivers who are members of the ASLEF trade have voted to go on strike on the Elizabeth line in London. 
Drivers will walk out on 27th February, 1st March, 8th March and 10th March from 00:01 to 23:59., Aslef say.
Mick Whelan, ASLEF’s general secretary, explains: 
“Our members have been instrumental in the success of the Elizabeth line - it’s a partnership, in practice, between the company and its employees - but, despite our best efforts, MTR has decided not to recognise the input, the importance, and the value of train drivers in this success.’
Drivers voted “overwhelmingly” for industrial action, Aslef adds, with 95% voting yes on a turnout of 88%.
block-time published-time 10.53am GMT 
Here’s a clip of Rachel Reeves discussing today’s GDP report:
enltr'I am still not satisfied with the level of growth that our economy is achieving' Chancellor Rachel Reeves reacts to the UK economy growing 0.1% in the final quarter of 2024 ??  ?? Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube 
 — Sky News (@SkyNews) 
block-time published-time 10.39am GMT 
 Barclays CEO's pay more than doubles; defends DEI policies  
 The pay of Barclays’ chief executive has more than doubled to £10.5m, as a rebound in investment banking and steady interest rates helped push the UK bank’s annual profits up by almost a quarter. 
 CS Venkatakrishnan’s payout is one of the largest for a Barclays boss, having risen from £4.6m a year earlier in 2023.
 Related:  
 Barclays CEO  also defended the bank’s DEI policy amid the US rollback, telling media on Thursday morning: 
“This company and our management team and I have an enduring commitment to a culture of inclusivity in the bank, and it’s enduring and unwavering. And we want to ensure that this organization is meritocratic. It’s a place where people can start their careers, excel, have the opportunities to develop, to broaden themselves and to spend a long time here in a fulfilling way. 
What that means, if you want to get the very best people is, by necessity, you get a very diverse workforce. We want to provide equality of opportunity, and we want to create that inclusive environment in which people really can shine, excel and contribute to this bank. So that’s that’s our approach, and we will continue to run the business and run the company in that way”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.45pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.20am GMT 
 Digging into the detail of today’s GDP report, you can see that growth in Q4 was driven by an increase in inventories – ie, companies stockpiling raw materials and parts. 
That made up for falls in net trade and gross fixed capital formation (ie, spending on assets) in the October-December quarter.
 ING  developed markets economist, James Smith,  explains:
The UK economy grew by 0.1% in the final quarter of 2024, though only because of a surge in inventories. These are a notoriously volatile accounting fixture which, unlike other parts of the GDP breakdown, don’t tell us much about the underlying health of the economy.
The areas that do – household consumption, exports, and business investment – were all flat or negative. The latter was a particular disappointment, falling by more than 3% in Q4, having outperformed many other economies earlier in the year.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.20am GMT
block-time published-time 10.02am GMT 
 UK pushes competition regulator to support growth  
 The UK government has just released new strategic guidance for its competition watchdog, stating that the regulator should support growth and investment, as part of the push to grow the economy. 
The ‘strategic steer’ states that the Competition and Markets Authority’s (CMA’s) actions should be “swift, predictable, independent and proportionate”, to support growth and investment.
The document says the CMA should use its tools “proportionately, with growth and investment in mind”.
That means:
prioritising pro-growth and pro-investment interventionsfocusing on markets and harms that particularly impact UK-based consumers and businessessupporting growth and international competitiveness in the industrial strategy’s 8 key sectors
The CMA is also being instructed to “minimise uncertainty” by engaging with those affected by its work, and to engage with the government to find ways to support its growth agenda.
This new ‘steer’ comes less than a month after the government forced out the CMA’s chair, Marcus Bokkerink.
 Related:  
Business secretary Jonathan Reynolds is presenting the new strategy now:
enltrBusiness Secretary Jonathan Reynolds speech on competition watchdog reform. But also takes a swipe at growing threat from Reform. “I don’t believe in the snake oil of the extreme..the siren song from the fringes of our politics” 
 — Ashley Armstrong (@AArmstrong_says) 
enltrReynolds says CMA overhaul will include reform of merger control process. But says he’s not satisfied with other regulators “it’s not enough..watch this space”
— Ashley Armstrong (@AArmstrong_says) 
enltrMake Work Pay changes: Won’t come in sooner than Autumn 2026. Probation period preference for 9 months (Rayner wanted much shorter). Reynolds says lighter touch for dismissal in early days of employment - after companies pushed that it would make it harder to take risks on jobs
— Ashley Armstrong (@AArmstrong_says) 
block-time published-time 9.45am GMT 
 UK living standards decline as GDP per head falls  
 The depressing fact from this morning’s growth report is that UK living standards, as measured by GDP per capita, have fallen for two years running. 
As flagged  , GDP per head fell in the second half of 2024, and in each quarter in 2023.
That means that the increase in activity was more than outpaced by increased population, indicating that individuals won’t actually feel any benefit from growth in the economy, such as . 
 Sam Miley,  managing economist and forecasting lead at the Cebr thinktank, says this highlights the “poor conditions” faced by the UK economy:
“The UK economy returned to growth in Q4, surpassing expectations with an expansion of 0.1% on the quarter. Though welcome news, this feeble rate of growth is still evidence of a weak trajectory, which is expected to persist into 2025.
Q4’s figures take full year growth for 2024 to 0.9%, marginally above Cebr’s forecast of 0.8%. However, in a further sign of the poor conditions facing the UK economy, GDP per capita fell by 0.1% over this period. This metric has now fallen for two consecutive years, suggesting declining living standards.”
 Simon French, chief conomist at Panmure Liberum, says this is the crucial measure for the government to improve:
enltrThis is the chart that requires the turnaround - UK GDP per capita has fallen for six of the last eight quarters, under governments of both shades. There will be little electoral credit for growth until this inflects higher. 
 — Simon French (@Frencheconomics) 
enltrIt is worth noting that almost all the economic evidence suggests that after a large inward migration surge like the one the UK has experienced since Brexit, GDP per capita will be depressed given a large denominator effect. But the medium term outlook is more rosy given what we… 
 — Simon French (@Frencheconomics) 
And here’s Sandra Horsfield,  economist at  Investec, on the fall in GDP per head:
In calculating these figures, the ONS took on board new, higher, population estimates that incorporate more net migration into the UK.
Indeed, on a per-capita basis, GDP fell by 0.1% in 2024 after a 0.9% decline in 2023. Whereas this is by no means a perfect gauge of living standards, it illustrates that momentum is still lacking.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.43am GMT
block-time published-time 9.20am GMT 
 UK interest rate cut forecasts pushed back, slightly.  
 City traders have slightly pushed back their expectations for when the Bank of England will cut interest rates. 
The money markets are now indicating that the next cut to borrowing costs may not come until June – previously a cut, to 4.25%, was fully priced in by May.
The City still expects three rate cuts this year (ie two more during 2025, after last week’s cut). But the third is now only expected by November, rather than September (or even August ) as previously expected.
 May, August and November are more likely months for rate cuts, though, as the Bank is due to release new economic forecasts at those meetings.
Traders may be calcuating that the stronger-than-expected UK economic growth in Q4 takes some pressure off the Bank to cut interest rates – after all, it had expected GDP to fall by 0.1% in October-December, not grow by 0.1%.
They’ll also be digesting comments from Bank chief economist Huw Pill, who has   that the BoE needs to move cautiously with cutting interest rates because the long process of wrestling down inflation is not yet complete.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.44am GMT
block-time published-time 8.54am GMT 
 Stoxx 600 hits record high on Ukraine peace talk hopes  
 European stock markets are in a cheerier mood this morning, after Donald Trump announced he and Vladimir Putin have agreed to begin negotiations to broker a ceasefire in Ukraine. 
The Stoxx 600 share index has gained 0.5% to a new alltime high, extending a run of highs.
Consumer goods makers are leading the rally - after Nestlé beat sales forecasts this morning – followed by miners and industrial companies.
European defense stocks are falling, though, as investors price in the chances of an end to the confict. Aerospace firms Leonardo (-2.4%), Dassault Aviation (-1.6%) and Thales (-0.6%) are all lower.
EU leaders haev warned, though, that they need to be part of negotiations on the fate of  , as Nato members gather in Brussels.
 Related:  
 Holger Schmieding of Berenberg Bank says a serious initiative to stop the war would be “most welcome”, but adds that negotiations must meet two conditions to be successful:
The US (and Europe) need to put enough pressure on Putin to force him to negotiate in earnest. That requires more rather than less support for Ukraine. Otherwise, Putin may just use the cover of talks to continue his aggression, hoping that the US and Europe would scale back support for Ukraine and thus let Putin move ahead on the battlefield.The outcome of negotiations needs to be genuinely acceptable to Ukraine. If Ukraine is forced into a deal that destabilises the country and amounts to a de facto win for Putin, the consequences for Ukraine and other parts of Europe could be quite negative instead.
block-time published-time 8.29am GMT 
 Britain’s better-than-expected growth figures haven’t brought much cheer to the London stock market. 
Shares are down in early trading, with the FTSE 100 index down 45 points or 0.5% at 8762 points, away from yesterday’s record high.
A clutch of big companies are dragging the index down, for various reasons.
 British American Tobacco (-8%) are the top faller, after taking an $8bn charge over a court case in Canada and missing revenue expectations this morning.
Consumer goods giant Unilever (-5.8%) are weaker too, after announcing it will list its ice-cream business in London, New York and Amsterdam ( a Neapolitan triple-listing? ), and slightly missing estimates for underlying sales growth.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.01am GMT
block-time published-time 8.19am GMT 
 Reeves: Not satisfied with level of growth  
 Rachel Reeves is insisting that more needs to be done to fix the UK economy, following this morning’s better-than-expected growth figures. 
Speaking to broadcasters this morning, after learning that GDP rose by 0.1% in the last quarter of 2024, the Chancellor said:
“The growth numbers have come in higher than many expected, but I’m still not satisfied with the level of growth that our economy is achieving.
“And that’s why I am determined to go further and faster in delivering the economic growth and the improvements in living standards that our country deserves.”
 Reeves went on to argue that it isn’t possible to turn around “more than a decade of poor economic performance in just a few months”, saying:
“We are doing what is necessary to bring stability back to the economy, reforming the economy, the planning system, regulation and pensions to encourage investment in our economy, which is the lifeblood of a successful economy
“We need to go further and faster in doing that, to turn around our poor growth performance and to make working people better off.
And she insisted that her fiscal rules are “non-negotiable”, saying her pledge to stick to responsible borrowing levels created stability, allowing three interest rate cuts since last summer’s election.
block-time published-time 8.11am GMT 
 UK GDP: What the economists say  
 Rection to this morning’s better-than-expected UK growth figures is pouring in. 
 Paul Dales, chief UK economist at Capital Economics, predicts that the UK economy will only “move sideways” over the next six months, telling clients:
After stagnating in Q3, the economy was saved from the same fate in Q4 (or worse) by a 0.4% m/m rise in GDP in December (consensus +0.1%, CE -0.1%). That’s pretty much the only growth there’s been for a while as it explains all of the 0.4% rise in GDP since Labour came to power in July and the 0.3% gain since last April.
It’s clear that a lot of the weakness is due to the rise in business taxes announced in October’s Budget as well as soft demand overseas
 Anna Leach, chief economist at the Institute of Directors, says the UK ended 2024 with “a welcome growth surprise”, adding:
Professional, scientific and technical activities drove growth in December, and indeed was the strongest growth sector over 2024. Growth this year should be supported by further falls in interest rates. But headwinds to growth are building, from both the international environment and a rapidly softening labour market.
“It is welcome to see signs of life in the economy at the end of 2024. 2025 has already seen a welcome change in tone from the government, with the Chancellor firmly expressing the growth priority. The government has a strong policy pipeline to help improve the environment for investment in the UK, which is key to driving up productivity and growth. Action on industrial strategy, planning reform and infrastructure planning will be instrumental in supporting private sector confidence and investment further out. 
 Rob Morgan,  chief investment analyst at Charles Stanley,  says the growth in Q4 will provide “some rare relief for Chancellor Rachel Reeves”, but cautions:
It is not a time for victory laps certainly, and the danger of recession hasn’t gone away, but relative to expectations this is a win for the Chancellor. Concerns of a weak festive period did not transpire, and it offers something to build on this year.
Overall, it appears likely there will be a continued small improvement, at least in the short term. Consumers and businesses will continue to benefit from falling interest rates with three cuts made in the past six months or so. The boost to government spending should also provide a temporary uplift.
 Debapratim De,  director of economic research at Deloitte,  sees “sluggish growth” in the short term:
“GDP growth has come in above expectations in the fourth quarter but by a small margin. Underlying momentum remains weak.
“Today’s data does not change our outlook for 2025. We continue to expect sluggish growth through spring, with the fiscal easing from last year’s Autumn Budget driving a pickup in activity over summer.”
block-time published-time 7.54am GMT 
 Full story: UK economy grows by 0.1% in unexpected boost for Rachel Reeves  
 Britain’s economy unexpectedly picked up in the final three months of 2024, official figures have shown, easing pressure on the chancellor,  , after flatlining during the summer. 
Figures from the   show gross domestic product rose by 0.1% in the fourth quarter of 2024 – after zero growth in the previous three months – to beat the forecasts of City economists and the Bank of England for a decline of 0.1%.
The latest snapshot will provide a shot in the arm for Labour after Reeves faced intense criticism for denting business and consumer confidence with her £40bn tax-raising October budget.
Monthly figures show the economy grew by a better-than-expected 0.4% in December, fuelled by growth in the UK’s dominant services sector after a strong month for business-facing services. Economists had expected growth of 0.1% in December.
 Liz McKeown, the ONS director of economic statistics, said: 
“The economy picked up in December after several weak months, meaning, overall, the economy grew a little in the fourth quarter of last year.
“Across the quarter, growth in services and construction were partially offset by a fall in production. GDP per head, in contrast, fell back slightly in the quarter.
More here:
 Related:  
block-time published-time 7.46am GMT 
 UK's manufacturing recession continues as carmaking declines  
 Today’s GDP report shows that Britain’s production sector has shrunk for the last five quarters in a row, with activity declining by 0.8% in the fourth quarter of last year. 
The fall in production was largely driven by a 0.7% decline in manufacturing and a 2.5% decline in mining and quarrying, the Office for National Statistics report.
The largest negative contributions came from the manufacture of transport equipment, which fell by 2.3%, and the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, which fell by 4.0%.
The ONS says:
The manufacture of transport has fallen for three consecutive quarters, mainly because of a decline in the manufacture of motor vehicles and motorcycles.
Data earlier this year showed that British car production fell in 2024 to its lowest level in seven decades – barring the coronavirus pandemic – as the industry struggles with weak demand and prepares to shift away from fossil fuels to electric vehicles.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 7.40am GMT 
 Shadow chancellor Mel Stride has accused chancellor Rachel Reeves of “killing growth” with her budget, delivered at the end of October - despite the economy growing by a decent 0.4% in December. 
 Stride  claims working people and businesses are “already paying for her choices.”
“The Chancellor promised the fastest growing economy in the G7, but her budget is killing growth.
“Working people and businesses are already paying for her choices with ever rocketing taxes, hundreds of thousands of job cuts and business confidence plummeting.
“It does not need to be this way.
“Under new leadership, the Conservative Party will continue to oppose Labour’s disastrous decisions and stand up for businesses and working people up and down our country.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.41am GMT
block-time published-time 7.35am GMT 
 UK mid-table for G7 growth  
 The UK appears to be mid-table for growth among G7 nations at the end of last year. 
 Britain’s growth of 0.1% in October-December puts it behind the US, which expanded by almost 0.6% in the quarter, and   . 
 Japan’s GDP data, due on Sunday night, is expected to show growth of 0.3%.
The UK has outpaced the eurozone, which stagnated in Q4 2024, as did Italy. France shrank by 0.1% in the quarter, while the troubled German economy contracted by 0.2%.
Despite beating European rivals, the government clearly has work to do to hit . 
block-time published-time 7.22am GMT 
 Pound rises over $1.25  
 The pound has hit a one-week high, after this morning’s GDP data beat expectations. 
Sterling is up over half a cent at just over $1.25.
It has already been strengthening, as the markets welcomed . 
block-time published-time 7.18am GMT 
 Reeves: I won't accept failing economy  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer Rachel Reeves  has responded to this morning’s GDP report, saying:
“For too long, politicians have accepted an economy that has failed working people. I won’t.
“After 14 years of flatlining living standards, we are going further and faster through our Plan for Change to put more money in people’s pockets.
“That is why we are taking on the blockers to get Britain building again, investing in our roads, rail and energy infrastructure, and removing the barriers that get in the way of businesses who want to expand.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.18am GMT
block-time published-time 7.15am GMT 
 Real GDP per head falls for second quarter running  
 Worryingly, though, once you adjust for population changes you see that UK economic activity per person actually fell over the last two quarter. 
Real GDP per head is estimated to have fallen by 0.1% in Quarter 4 2024, the ONS says.
Its first estimate shows that there was a slight fall in GDP per head of 0.1% in 2024.
GDP per capita is a proxy for living standards, so this indicates Britons have become poorer since last summer – as they also did through 2023.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.03am GMT
block-time published-time 7.08am GMT 
 Economy picked up in December  
In December alone, UK GDP expanded by a faster-than-expected 0.4% – helping the economy to grow in the final quarter of 2024.
 ONS  director of economic statistics  Liz McKeown  says:
“The economy picked up in December after several weak months, meaning, overall, the economy grew a little in the fourth quarter of last year. Across the quarter, growth in services and construction were partially offset by a fall in production. GDP per head, in contrast, fell back slightly in the quarter. 
“In December wholesale, film distribution and pubs and bars all had a strong month, as did manufacturing of machinery and the often-erratic pharmaceutical industry. However, these were partially offset by weak months for computer programming, publishing and car sales.” 
block-time published-time 7.06am GMT 
 The UK economy was supported by growth in the services sector, and in construction, in the final quarter of last year. 
Britain’s services sector grew by 0.2%, while construction expanded by 0.5%.
The manufacturing sector contracted, though, with production output down by 0.8%.
block-time published-time 7.03am GMT 
 UK beats forecasts as GDP rises 0.1% in October-December  
 Newsflash: Britain’s economy has avoided dropping into recession, after posting modest growth at the end of last year. 
UK GDP rose by 0.1% in October-December, better than City economists had expected – they’d pencilled in a 0.1% fall in activity, which would have put the economy on the brink of a technical recession.
This will be a relief for chancellor Rachel Reeves.
That follows no growth in July-September, as previously reported.
The Office for National Statistics reports that the services and construction sectors grew, while production output fell.
However, the economy did shrink in Q4 on a per capita basis (GDP per head of population) – . 
enltrGDP grew 0.1% in Quarter 4 (Oct to Dec) 2024; services (+0.2%) and construction (+0.5%) both grew while production fell (-0.8%). Read GDP first quarterly estimate ??  
 — Office for National Statistics (ONS) (@ONS) 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.08am GMT
block-time published-time 6.43am GMT 
 The UK government is hoping to spur growth by starting construction up to 12 new towns by the next election. 
Each new town will have the potential for at least 10,000 homes with accompanying infrastructure, as the government promised to sweep away red tape and   to get them built.
More   :
 Related:  
block-time published-time 6.40am GMT 
 Introduction: UK GDP report in focus  
 Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of business, the financial markets and the world economy. 
We’re about to learn how the UK economy fared in the final three months of 2024.
The first estimate of UK GDP for the October-December quarter is due to be released at 7am, but it may not make cheerful reading for the government.
City economists are expecting to learn that the economy shrank by 0.1% in Q4 2024, which would Britain on the brink of a technical recession – defined as two quarterly contractions in a row.
The economy stagnated in July-September, so expectations are that the economy hasn’t grown in the two quarters since Labour won the general election in July.
Today’s data will also show how the economy performed in December. Earlier data has shown that GDP fell by 0.1% in October, followed by a 0.1% rise in November (these figures could be revised, though.)
And there are tougher times ahead, as Donald Trump threatens to ignite a trade war.
 Related:  
 Michael Field,  chief equity strategist at Morningstar,  says:
Some sectors of the UK economy are clearly struggling, such as manufacturing and particularly areas like chemicals, as they are grappling with high energy prices relative to the US, making them less competitive. The danger is that US tariffs could also worsen the situation for exporters.
Interest rates have fallen by 75 basis points from the peak, with the market expecting another 65 basis points of cuts this year. The cuts may be coming at a slower pace than markets would like, but over time these cumulative cuts should help create a more supportive economic environment for businesses.”
  The agenda 7am GMT: UK GDP report for October-December 20247am GMT: UK trade report for October-December 20249am GMT: IEA oil market report9.30am GMT: Business investment in the UK: October to December 2024, provisional results1.30pm GMT: US weekly jobless claims

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
