




Michigan Daily: University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
February 3, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS-; Pg. 1
Length: 1180 words
Body


The University Insider is The Daily's first faculty and staff-oriented newsletter. This weekly newsletter will give U-M faculty and staff the ability to see the most important issues on campus and in Ann Arbor - particularly those related to administrative decisions - from the perspective of an independent news organization. It will also provide a better understanding of student perspectives.
Subscribe
Processing...
Success! You're on the list.
Whoops! There was an error and we couldn't process your subscription. Please reload the page and try again.
Since President Donald Trump's inauguration Jan. 20, the new administration has released a series of executive orders and memos that have the potential to impact research, education and student life at the University of Michigan. In anticipation of these changes, both the University and campus organizations have reacted to the federal government's activity with a diverse set of opinions and statements.
On Jan. 22, University Provost Laurie McCauley, Geoffrey Chatas, the University's executive vice president and chief financial officer and Marschall Runge, the University's executive vice president for medical affairs sent an email to students, faculty and staff regarding the new presidential administration. In the email, McCauley, Chatas and Runge said their aim is to monitor new legislation and policies while maintaining a well-thought-out strategy for interacting with the federal government. They also noted that anyone on campus is allowed to exercise their right to free speech during a period of political change that has the potential to inspire a variety of viewpoints on campus.
In an interview with The Michigan Daily, LSA junior Reed Sexton, president of Roundtable, a nonpartisan student organization that hosts open discussions to help members develop their political beliefs, said he thought the statement lacked substance but understood the University's decision to publish a response.
"To me, it's not saying much of anything," Sexton said. "It's like (the University) just wants to reassure people but (it's) not saying anything that's indicating that they're going to do something bold or controversial. In my opinion, it's just mostly rhetoric, like saying, 'As a University we are committed to free speech and we're going to find the best path forward.' It doesn't really mean a lot, but it's nothing I disagree with."
In an interview with The Daily, LSA sophomore Alexander Richmond, president of the College Republicans at the University of Michigan, said he does not foresee many changes at the University besides potential cuts to funding for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives in response to Trump's roll back of federal DEI programs.
"There's probably going to be a bit of overhaul when it comes to the distribution of publicly funded grants and programs that we have - probably DEI I would say, for the most part," Richmond said. "Aside from that, I really think that not terribly much will change."
In an email to The Daily, International Youth and Students for Social Equality, a student organization focused on promoting discussion and action around social, political and economic inequalities, wrote they feel the University's statement supporting free speech is hypocritical due to recent disciplinary actions taken against protestors on campus.
"The University of Michigan administration's supposed plans to monitor Trump's executive orders ... are entirely hypocritical," IYSSE wrote. "Despite claiming to 'support and encourage civil discourse, constructive debate and diverse viewpoints,' U-M has been among the US universities and colleges spearheading the attack on the pro-Palestinian protests against the genocide in Gaza and the democratic rights of workers and youth on the campus."
In an interview with The Daily, LSA junior Ali Allam, LSA Student Government vice president and co-chair of the Muslim Coalition, a union of student organizations serving the interests of Muslim students, said he believes the administration will inspire restrictions on free speech, citing an executive order that could pose limitations on student visas for pro-Palestinian protesters.
"I think we're gonna see a big crackdown on free speech, which is ironic, given that the current president campaigned upon expanding free speech," Allam said. "We just saw one of the executive orders that he signed that essentially jeopardizes immigration status for international students based on their geo-political beliefs. That's something that's unacceptable. I think that's pretty unconstitutional to do that."
Allam also shared the LSA Student Government's plans in response to the new presidential administration. The organization hopes to serve and provide resources for low income students, as well as fight threats to DEI programs and free speech.
"Our government provides some services for students, like grocery subsidization or laundry subsidization, just to ease the burden on low income students," Allam said. "If folks have been affected by those income freezes, or if they do end up being affected, we strongly welcome them to apply to those programs that we provide for the student body. And we're constantly engaging in a push back against the attacks on DEI and free speech."
In an interview with The Daily, LSA junior Ian Moore, a member of the College Democrats at the University of Michigan, said he would like the University to support students over the next four years.
"I think for the University, they need to make it very clear that they have the students' backs," Moore said. "I think right now they're saying, 'We're listening to you,' all of that stuff. But if it comes down to the presidential administration versus the students, whatever that might look like, they've got to have the students' backs there, whether that looks like visas for foreign students or just protecting the right to peacefully protest on campus."
In addition to the email following the inauguration, the University also launched a new webpage to highlight campus updates related to federal orders. The memo includes links to all campus messages about the new administration, campus resources, information about diversity, equity and inclusion, information related to international students and employees and information on undocumented individuals.
In an email to U-M community members, Chris Kolb, the University vice president for government relations, announced the webpage and wrote that the University was seeking guidance on recent memos and executive orders emerging from the federal government.
"We recognize the uncertainty and questions that these possible changes have brought and we assure you that we will remain steadfast in our support of our community and the work each one of you do to advance the research and educational efforts that are so vital to our state and nation," Kolb wrote. "We ask for your patience as we take the necessary time to complete a thorough analysis."
Daily Staff Reporters Delilah Dakis and Caroline Wroldsen can be reached at  and 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
