




The Carolinian: University of North Carolina - Greensboro
February 18, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1122 words
Body


By Karis Hudgins and Jessi Rae Morton?
To comply with President Trump's Jan. 21 executive order-entitled Ending Illegal Discrimination and Restoring Merit-Based Opportunity -removing diversity, equity, and inclusion policies from executive departments and agencies, the UNC system issued a memo on Feb. 5.
The memo, sent by UNC System General Council Andrew Tripp, states that "effective immediately, all general education requirements and major-specific requirements mandating completion of course credits related to diversity, equity, and inclusion, or any other topic identified in Section VII of the Equality Policy are suspended." The course suspensions will affect all UNC campuses, including the University of North Carolina Greensboro, but long-term implications for students and institutions remain unclear.??
Some system schools will be affected more directly than others. For example, UNC Greensboro has general-education requirements directly related to "Diversity and Equity," as well as "Global Engagement and Intercultural Learning." Similarly, UNC Chapel Hill's general education courses include "Power, Difference, and Inequality" and "Global Understanding and Engagement" requirements, as discussed in Emma Pettit's reporting for The Chronical of Higher Education. UNC Charlotte's general education requirements include an "engagement across perspectives competency" taught in global and local "theme" courses, but students choose which courses to take from a wide range of offerings, so these courses are unlikely to be affected, at least in the short term.?
UNC Greensboro's Dean of Undergraduate Studies, Andrew Hamilton, sent an official message from the University on Feb. 7 stating "...we are removing the Diversity and Equity requirement from our general education program-the MAC-effective immediately." Hamilton's message informed UNCG students that majors and minors at both undergraduate and graduate levels will be affected. Hamilton also ensured those in programs that fall under DEI can expect an email with further information regarding curriculum change by Feb. 24.?
At a university that has long been credited for fostering their diverse environment, UNCG students and faculty are now questioning what this means for their academic experience. Criminology and Justice Studies major, Kathryn Aycock, vocalized concerns many are experiencing. "So many students in the humanities programs have rightfully questioned what the future of their education will be," she stated.?
According to the most recent message from the University, sent on Feb. 11, the removal of DEI requirements will not affect any progress toward student completion of general education requirements for graduation. Hamilton's email also stated that no current Spring 2025 courses will be canceled, nor will anyone be forced to withdraw from any current enrollment. However, students will be given the opportunity to choose to withdraw, with no penalty, from courses originally under the DEI requirement. Those who wish to continue in courses will receive elective credit for completion.?
Students fear the suspension of DEI requirements will reverse progress made over the past several years. Ongoing advocacy from students, faculty and the university's leadership will play a crucial role in maintaining UNCG's promise to prioritize diversity and inclusion inside and outside the classroom.
A third-year PhD student, who wishes to remain anonymous, encourages others to continue enrolling in courses that were once labeled DEI. "It's an enormously important topic that deserves to be taught. As long as there is still a demand for these classes, UNCG won't eliminate them entirely."?
The same student also said, "I was disappointed but not surprised. As soon as the president decided to attack the education system and minorities, I knew this was coming." The lack of surprise is likely informed by previous anti-DEI efforts at the state level. For many UNC system schools, large-scale changes related to DEI have already been completed. As The Carolinian reported in November 2024, on May 23 of that year, the University of North Carolina System Board of Governors voted to repeal an existing diversity, equity, and inclusion policy. That policy was replaced with the new "Equality Within the University of North Carolina" policy. Universities within the system were expected to demonstrate compliance with the new policy by Sept. 1, 2024, resulting in many quick changes across the state.?
In attempts to comply with the system office "Equality Policy" last year, schools across the system eliminated and realigned positions. They also "made changes to their job descriptions, admissions of student support centers, employee training and the programmatic content presented to students" as reported by Sarayu Thondapu and Defne Önal for The Daily Tar Heel on Sept. 15, 2024.?
UNC System students are not likely to be alone for long as anti-DEI efforts continue across the country. As Emma Pettit concludes in her article for The Chronicle of Higher Education: "Three states have proposed legislation this year to bar some or all public colleges from requiring courses that promote certain concepts, such as systemic racism and racial and gender diversity. The bill in Texas would go the furthest, restricting institutions from offering any programs or courses in LGBTQ or DEI studies."?
In the face of such challenges, differing perspectives on the UNC Greensboro campus have emerged. Some students feel that the campus community can continue to foster an inclusive environment, while others fear this policy will set the campus back. The anonymous third-year PhD student quoted above had this to say: "I really don't think this change will affect the atmosphere of UNCG since it's a very diverse, open minded and accepting place. I don't think class requirements can change the essence of what UNCG is."
Aycock, however, advocates for administration to attack the issue more directly. "Challenge things! If you value the safety and freedom of your students, thoughts and prayers will not be enough to protect us."?
The suspension of DEI course requirements across UNC schools has initiated complex debates for how our education system will move forward. As these changes unfold, one thing remains clear: voices from students and faculty will be pivotal in ensuring UNC Greensboro protects its diverse and inclusive environment that is loved by so many.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
More
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)
Like Loading...
Related

Load-Date: February 18, 2025


End of Document
