




TheHill.com
February 25, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS & US POLITICS NEWS
Length: 428 words
Byline: Elizabeth Crisp
Body


The Trump administration has reopened applications for a federal scholarship that aids studying agriculture at historically Black universities after outcry from lawmakers over its abrupt suspension last week.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture, which administers the federal 1890 National Scholars Program through its Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement (OPPE),  last week “pending further review,” but the program’s USDA website was updated Tuesday to note that the application process has resumed. Eligible students  through March 15.
USDA’s OPPE didn’t immediately respond to The Hill’s requests for comment on the reversal. A USDA spokesperson  that students already benefitting from the award would not have it stripped.
“Like other programs within the Department, Secretary Rollins will continue to review the 1890 National Scholars Program, its mission, and its metrics to ensure the most efficient use of taxpayer resources,” the USDA spokesperson said last week.
The new administration, under President Trump’s ,  many federal programs that are geared toward diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts.
The HBCU scholars program, which was created in 1992, provides tuition and room and board for selected students pursuing degrees in agriculture, food, natural resource sciences or related fields at 19 historically Black schools across the country. Ninety-four students received the scholarship last year.
“I’m pleased the Secretary has lifted the suspension of and reopened the application for the USDA 1890 National Scholars Program,” Rep. Alma Adams (D-N.C.) said in a statement on the reversal. “This program has been in place since 1992, and I hope we can work together to address the real challenges and real opportunities for our 1890s and our HBCUs.”
Adams is a founding member of the bipartisan HBCU caucus in Congress and a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, and she had been a vocal opponent of the proposed change.
Sen. Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) also had blasted the pause before its reversal. In a statement to The Hill after the program was reopened, Ossoff said he would continue to watch for other attempts at program changes that would affect HBCU funding.
“The Trump Administration should never have paused this funding in the first place,” he said. “I will continue my oversight to ensure that Georgia HBCU students receive the support Congress directed to them.”


Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
