




Northwestern Missourian: Northwest Missouri State University
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1078 words
Body


After the dissolution of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion became known, multiple Northwest alumni publicly shared mixed reactions, with some ceasing their donations to the University as a direct result.
Jerry Houghton is a 1979 graduate of Northwest. He said there were organizations and groups for minority populations on campus, but diversity, equity and inclusion was not as open or cultivated as it is now.
"It was very much more of a concept and an ideal than practice," Houghton said.
Considering the current political climate, Houghton said society is divided, specifically in ethnic and racial circumstances. He said this division might have been intensified with the shift in U.S. presidential power.
Houghton said the University's alumni base became strengthened through its donations and alumni support. As for the future of Northwest in the long run, Houghton said the sudden announcement might impact alumni donations.
"This could really hurt their contributing...because that's one thing that's kept Northwest so viable is the strong support of their alumni," Houghton said. "Northwest is...the strongest college in northern Missouri because of its alumni support, and I would hate to see that diminished by this."
Bryan Waits graduated from the University in 1985. He regards Northwest as a wonderful institution, and he often recommends the people in his life attend it.
He said he thinks the concept of DEI starts out with some high ideals, but those ideals never seem to get realized.
"They (DEI initiatives) start out hoping to overcome some of the issues that America...and Missouri and Northwest and even families have experienced such as racism or exclusion, but they end up excluding and using racism to their advantage," Waits said. "And I'm against racism in all ways, shapes or forms."
When it comes to offices like the ODI, Waits said merit, talent and ability should be enough to get people where they need to go. While he said certain people may need help in some cases, it shouldn't be the job of taxpayers or the University to provide it. However, the ODIdoes not rely on state funding.
He said he has a hard time believing students who have been accepted into Northwest would have a difficult time finding resources at the school. Waits said he was glad the University chose to dissolve the ODI.
"First of all, I didn't realize that there even was an office there, an ODI office," Waits said. "So when it was being disbanded, I was happy to hear."
Lately, some companies and organizationshave doubled down on maintaining their DEI programs. The NFL and Costco aretwo examples of this. Waits said these are great decisions for private institutions to make for themselves, but he doesn't think public entities should be forced to have DEI offices.
Overall, Waits remembers his college experience as great, and thinks anyone who is qualified and up to the task can make it at Northwest. He recalled a man in his fraternity from Iran, who attended the school shortly after the Iranian Hostage Crisis. While tensions were high between the U.S. and Iran, Waits said the man was welcomed and felt safe.
"There were several students when I was a freshman all the way through senior (year), who had come from other nations, and they were welcome there," Waits said. "I don't remember anybody having a hard time at Northwest because of their race, their religion, their background, and those were some tough times."
One person, who wishes to remain anonymous, graduated from the University in 2019. They served in the Student Activities Council and Student Senate, working closely alongside the ODI in these roles.
During their time here, Anonymous said former Northwest President John Jasinski, along with all the student organizations and staff members, were on board with promoting inclusivity.
"I won't say it was perfect or anything, but I do think people at the time really were trying," Anonymous said.
Seeing how Northwest cared about DEI initiatives prompted Anonymous to donate to the University after graduating. They said they wanted to give back so more people could experience the same feeling they had while attending.
Dissolving the ODI, Anonymous said, feels like a step backward for the school. While they think federal and state funding cuts are a potential reason for the dissolution, Anonymous said they wish there were ways Northwest could be more creative in raising money for the ODI.
"It was heartbreaking to know that Northwest did this on their own accord," Anonymous said. "I know federal laws, federal executive orders are coming down, but a lot of those are being challenged. A lot of those are resulting in states suing the federal government, suing the current president (Donald Trump), to try to get that rolled back so they don't get taken into place."
Alumni donations and support is one way Anonymous suggests the University could maintain the ODI internally.
Anonymous now works in higher education, and said they are well aware of the budget constraints that institutions are experiencing. However, they said taking away DEI initiatives and divisions across the country tells people in marginalized groups they do not matter, and it makes those groups feel unsafe.
"If institutions aren't willing to stand up to not only the federal government but state governments...I just don't think there's a place for that anymore in a world that's demanding people be treated equally," Anonymous said.
In the long term, Anonymous said a vast majority of students want to go places where their identities will be represented. Without the ODI, they think enrollment will decline.
Before Anonymous decides to donate again, they said they want to see plans in place for how the ODI programming will be upheld. This includes how it intends to retain every staff member and how it will maintain policies that will adhere to federal guidelines.
An email sent by Northwest President Lance Tatum Feb. 10 said no employees in the ODI will lose their jobs. It also said programming from the office formerly known as the ODI will carry on as planned, now under the name Center of Global Engagement.
Anonymous, however, encourages people to become informed about what the ODI does at Northwest before hastily forming an opinion.
"I think there's a lot of misconceptions in the media, and regardless of where you are politically, I just want to encourage people to do their own research and become well-informed on what a DEI office even does," Anonymous said.

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
