




Daily Nebraskan: University of Nebraska-Lincoln
February 7, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 784 words
Body


Hundreds of demonstrators gathered in freezing temperatures outside the Nebraska State Capitol on Wednesday to protest recent actions by President Donald Trump's administration, including the over fifty executive orders Trump signed since Jan. 20. 
These orders include controversial actions towards immigration, DEI programs and withdrawing the United States from the World Health Organization and Paris Climate Agreement. 
The protest was part of the "50 protests, 50 states, one day" movement against the actions of the Trump administration. Across the United States, protestors gathered at state capitols to demonstrate their frustration with the new administration. 
Protesters gather outside the Nebraska State Capitol to demonstrate against Project 2025 and President Donald Trump's policies on Wednesday, Feb. 5, 2025, in Lincoln.
Photo by Justin Diep
University of Nebraska-Lincoln staff and students were among the crowd of protestors. 
Luis Othoniel Rosa Rodriguez, associate director of the Institute for Ethnic Studies and associate professor of Spanish, said one of the reasons he attended is because educational institutions are threatened by the Trump administration, especially programs in the humanities. 
"Students should be concerned," he said.
Rodriquez referenced the closure of the Office of Diversity and Inclusion last August, and is worried for the future of programs and majors within ethnic studies and modern languages.
Rodriquez said that nationwide, 'programs that teach the cultures of the disenfranchised' are being closed. He clarified that, at UNL, IES and MLL programs remain active, and no official word has been mentioned regarding any potential closure.
Rodriguez said he uses history to draw comparisons to the nation's current state, which gives him hope for resistance. 
"There is a script for this, this has happened before," Rodriguez said. "In Argentina when the fascist dictatorship rose during the 70s and 80s, the universities were completely disenfranchised, yet the opposition to that produced the greatest generation of intellectuals that are remembered in Argentinian history." 
Protesters gather outside the Nebraska State Capitol to demonstrate against Project 2025 and President Donald Trump's policies on Wednesday, Feb. 5, 2025, in Lincoln.
Photo by Justin Diep
Erick Betts, a sophomore political science major, said he attended the demonstration because he feels "passionately about democracy." 
"The country is, I fear, turning into an autocracy extremely quickly, and if I don't stand up now, when will I," he said. 
Betts said in the past two weeks the Trump administration already began "whittling away at people's rights."
"As things currently stand, the house can't hold, and unless things change, I worry for the future," he said. "What did we fight for in all those World Wars if not for this?"  
Korben Ockander, a freshman architecture major, said he attended the protest to stand up for others.
"People are being treated as less than human and I want to help make a change" Ockander said. "Lincoln is a good community with good representation, and we have to support one another." 
"The current administration has done nothing but stoke hatred, and it's giving people full of rage the confidence to show their true colors without fear of consequences," Ashley Hernandez-Najera, a senior civil engineering student said in an email to a Daily Nebraskan reporter following the event.
The most recurring chant at the demonstration was "Sí, se puede," which means "Yes, it is possible," in Spanish. 
The phrase originated from Dolores Huerta, an activist for laborers, women and immigrant rights. Huerta co-founded the Chicano movement and the predecessor organization for the United Farm Workers of America. The co-founder of the UFW, César Chávez, helped popularize the phrase, which soon became a historic rallying cry for similar movements.
Many cars and one school bus passed by the crowd, honking in response to a sign held by a protester that read "honk for rule of law."
Glenn Bear, a military veteran and Lincoln resident since 1980, held a sign displaying a Bible verse that read "Mark 8:36- For what does it profit a man who gains the whole world and loses his soul" in reference to Trump. 
"I think he's planning on being a dictator," Bear said. "I was in the military and I always felt like there was somewhere to go. If Trump keeps gaining traction, there will be nowhere to go and we won't even be able to protest." 
Joined by other community members, Bear emphasized his commitment to the cause. 
"I would rather stand out here every day for the next 600 days just to show that I oppose this than stand by and watch," Bear said.
 

Load-Date: February 10, 2025


End of Document
