




Daily Nebraskan: University of Nebraska-Lincoln
January 24, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 379 words
Byline: Grace Lewis
Body


Monday's overlap of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day with the inauguration of President Trump was unusual.
On the day dedicated to remembrance of the iconic advocate of peaceful protest, the newly inaugurated president issued over 1500 pardons for those who participated in the Jan. 6 Capitol insurrection.
While Barack Obama and Ronald Reagan also had Inauguration Day events fall on MLK Day, only one other U.S. president was actually sworn into office on the national holiday - Bill Clinton in 1997. 
University of Nebraska-Lincoln students had mixed feelings about the day that simultaneously honored the esteemed civil rights leader and Donald Trump.
Jayger Haag, freshman mechanical engineering major, didn't think much of the dual celebrations.
"I didn't think it was that big of a deal, but maybe for some people it is," he said.
In a statement to the Daily Nebraskan, UNL's Afrikan People's Union expressed profound concern over the concurrent celebrations.
"Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day is a time to honor Dr. King's legacy and reflect on the strides we have made toward his vision of a just, equal and nonviolent society. This day of honor aligning with the Inauguration of a President whose previous policies and rhetoric have been perceived as divisive and harmful to marginalized communities is deeply troubling," the APU said. "He constantly provokes marginalized Americans with his slogan 'Make America Great Again,' knowing the history of this country. His efforts to eliminate all DEI initiatives and programs, an issue that has already affected students here on our campus, along with other factors shows the type of America he thinks of as 'great.'" 
Isabella Cancelosi, freshman business law major, said it seemed the politics of the day drew attention away from the holiday.
"I feel like no one's talking about it as much," she said Monday evening.
The university's annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Week, during which UNL hosts various speakers and events to honor King's legacy, will take place the week of Jan. 28 this year.
"We must choose to use this moment as an opportunity to reflect on our shared responsibilities and to work together toward a more just and inclusive society for all Americans, as Dr. King's Legacy states," the APU said.
 
 

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
