




Daily Lobo: University of New Mexico
February 24, 2025 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 470 words
Byline: Maria Fernandez Nate Bernard
Body


The University of New Mexico will risk losing federal funding if it does not end race-based programs by Feb. 28, according to a Department of Educationmemosent to schools across the country Feb. 14. The memo citedTitle VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which bans discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin against any person, including within programs that receive federal funding.
As of Feb. 21, UNM will not make any changes to its operations, nor to its academic programming or student support services, according to UNM Chief Marketing and Communications Officer Cinnamon Blair.
The memo addresses all American educational institutions that receive federal funding. It named diversity, equity and inclusion programs as discriminatory against students through perpetuating "crude racial stereotypes."
UNM is aHispanic-serving institutionand has aDivision for Equity & Inclusion, which was responsible for the development of an institution-wide plan for diversity, equity and inclusion after its creation in 2007.
Although DEI is not explicitly defined within the Education Department memo, DEI refers to "programs that ensure people from different backgrounds, cultures, identities and experiences feel accepted in their environments," according to theColumbus Dispatch.
According to the memo, all educational institutions must end race-based programs by Feb. 28 or risk losing federal funding.
In 2024, UNM received about $383 million in both direct and indirect federal funding, according to Blair.
"I understand that the recent guidance has caused concern and uncertainty, especially for those connected to our support centers and programs designed to foster inclusivity and student success," UNM President Garnett Stokes wrote in a Feb. 20campus-wide email.
UNM will comply with all relevant laws "while preserving our commitment to student success and a welcoming campus climate," Stokes wrote in the email.
UNM is home toresource centersfor students of different racial backgrounds, including El Centro de la Raza,African American Student Services,American Indian Student Servicesand theAsian American Pacific Islander Resource Center.
People on UNM'srapid response teams- which focus on how President Donald Trump's administration will impact inclusive excellence, immigration policy implications, research funding impacts and patient care considerations, according to a Jan. 27 campus-wide email - will review the guidance, according to Blair.
"We know that our students also hear about the rapid changes being proposed or enacted in federal programs," Stokes said at her State of the University address on Friday, Feb. 21. "Our rapid response groups will continue to analyze any enforced orders or regulations and will let our community know immediately our understanding of what they might mean."

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
