




Business Insider
January 30, 2025 Thursday 02:20 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1339 words
Byline: ddefrancesco@businessinsider.com (Dan DeFrancesco)
Highlight: Trump's plan for widespread buyouts raises plenty of questions.
Body


This post originally appeared in the Business Insider Today newsletter.
You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.
Hello. A passenger jet carrying 64 people Wednesday night during the jet's final approach to Reagan Washington National Airport.
At a press conference Thursday morning, authorities said that what had been a rescue operation had become a "recovery operation," and that they didn't expect any survivors. .
In today's newsletter, President Donald Trump's plan for widespread buyouts still .
What's on deck
Markets: The people who won big betting on Nvidia early .
Tech:, , and  reported earnings.
Business: Hollywood's got , and it includes more shows like MrBeast's "."
But first, should I stay or should I go?
If this was forwarded to you, 
The big story
Move fast and cut the federal workforce
The speed at which President Donald Trump is implementing an unprecedented set of changes is creating plenty of questions for those being impacted.
Business Insider's Ayelet Sheffey breaks down , about a historic shake up of the federal workforce.
One key unknown factor is how individual agencies will handle buyout offers. The OPM kept its parameters pretty broad, leaving it to the agencies' discretion to decide which employees would be excluded from a buyout offer.
And then there's also the question of what the federal government will look like going forward. The OPM detailed four pillars the federal workforce will be built around - RTO, performance culture, more streamlined and flexible workforce, and enhanced standards of conduct - but specifics were sparse.
Leaving the federal workforce comes with a catch, though. If you're looking for a boss who hates RTO mandates and cost-cutting initiatives, you might be searching for a while. As BI's Tim Paradis writes, with so many threats to their business, executives are shifting away from the .
And then there's just the sheer unpredictability factor, as was the case with the pause on federal grants and loans. After a brief back-and-forth, .
One corner of the government, however, remains predictably predictable.
The Federal Reserve  as was widely expected. Despite urging from President Trump to lower rates last week, Fed Chair Jerome Powell and company held firm on the pause.
For a while, Powell has maintained that the economy is trending in the right direction. While there has been speculation about the impact of Trump's policies on the economy, he's made clear that the Fed cannot react to them until they are in place.
That makes the buyouts an interesting wrinkle for the Fed to consider. As the largest employer in the US, any significant change to the federal workforce has the potential to shake up the job market and wider economy.
News brief
Top headlines
Trump agrees to settle lawsuit against Meta, with most of the $25 million settlement going to Trump's presidential library.
US Navy email warns against using AI apps like China's DeepSeek.
Jay Z wants lawyer sanctioned over lawsuit accusing him and Diddy of VMA after-party rape.
OpenAI says DeepSeek may have used its AI outputs 'inappropriately' to train new models.
Nvidia's CEO lays out his vision of what the next 10 years will look like - and his simple advice to young people.
EY report doubles down on diversity initiatives as DEI comes under scrutiny in Trump's first weeks in power.
3 things in markets
1. Not so fast. Why some market strategists aren't sweating the impact of DeepSeek. Goldman Sachs' analysts don't see the arrival of the Chinese AI startup as  since it didn't disrupt the strong macroeconomic conditions. Other strategists said a brief reset of valuations is healthy, and .
2. Nvidia investors are unfazed. The chip giant's nearly $600 billion sell-off on Monday . Instead, investors said they saw it as an opportunity to buy more of the stock at a discount. One Nvidia retail trader told BI he thinks DeepSeek's move to disrupt players in the space is "laughable."
3. Trump takes another big step into the crypto world. Truth Social is launching  to offer financial products and is . Meanwhile, crypto exchange Coinbase tapped Chris LaCivita, the co-manager of President Trump's election campaign, .
3 things in tech
1. Microsoft's AI business boom isn't enough to keep investors happy. Azure and other cloud computing sales grew 31% in Q2. Still,  - and shares of Microsoft slipped in after-hours trading. Amid a recent influx of AI news, like DeepSeek and Stargate, Microsoft's CFO 
2. Zuckerberg touts Meta's big year ahead as it beats Q4 earnings. Despite exceeding Q4 expectations, the tech giant  for the coming quarter. CEO Mark Zuckerberg highlighted Meta's AI glasses during its earnings call, saying 2025 would be . He also highlighted Meta's newly improved relationship t and doubled down on its controversial shift away from fact-checkers.
3. Despite a disappointing earnings beat, Tesla keeps investors positive. Elon Musk's EV company , but it made up enough ground to keep investors happy. It said its energy business is booming, it's on track to mass produce its robotaxi in 2026, and it's gearing up to start producing more affordable models in the coming months. Shares rose over 3% in after-hours trading.
3 things in business
1. Inside Amazon's plan to cut managers. show how one AWS team is planning to slim down middle management, a glimpse into the company's strategy. The details aren't pretty - they include more direct reports, fewer senior hires, and pay cuts.
2. Hollywood may have a new normal. New data from industry data firm Ampere Analysis found that scripted TV show productions were down 25% in 2024, compared to their peak in 2022. The firm also expects big streamers' spending on entertainment to flatten. After the twin strikes in 2023, many in Hollywood expected production to bounce back - but Ampere . The key might be 
3. Inside Starbucks' plan to avoid chaos at the coffee counter. The coffee chain is  that will help serve walk-in and mobile order customers in a timely manner without overwhelming staff. The algorithm, which sequences mobile orders to avoid hitting baristas all at once, is only being tested in three stores so far, but early results already show improvements, Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol said.
In other news
Jesse Eisenberg said he was driving to Facebook to see if he could meet Mark Zuckerberg but was told to turn back for 'legal reasons.'
TikTok Shop's former boss on how the platform changed e-commerce forever - and how AI is leveling the playing field.
A Florida mansion next to Larry Ellison's is on the market for a record-setting $285 million. It hasn't been built yet.
'Negative equity' is on the rise - and even car dealers are concerned.
Why the owner of UFC and WWE is having a moment.
Benedict Cumberbatch says he will be in the next 'Avengers' movie, actually.
What's happening today
Apple, Intel, Comcast, Southwest Airlines, Visa, and US Steel report earnings.
Q4 GDP data published.
The Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Grace Lett, editor, in Chicago. Ella Hopkins, associate editor, in London. Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. Amanda Yen, associate editor, in New York. Elizabeth Casolo, fellow, in Chicago.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
