




Newsweek.com
February 1, 2025 Saturday 5:44 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 998 words
Byline: Peter Aitken
Highlight: The U.S. Army has released the name of one of the black hawk soldiers killed in the crash over D.C.'s Ronald Reagan International Airport on Wednesday night.
Body


The U.S. Army in a press release issued on Saturday afternoon identified the third soldier in the Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter that  Wednesday night as Captain Rebecca Lobach of Durham, North Carolina.
Lobach's family had requested that her name be withheld for a time, but they finally gave the U.S. Army permission to release her name to the public.
The Context
The crash on Wednesday night, which happened near Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C., was the first fatal commercial crash in the U.S. since 2009, prompting intense scrutiny on every aspect of the incident.  Flight 5342 carried 60 passengers and four crew members, while the Black Hawk carried three soldiers.
D.C. Fire and EMS Chief John Donnelly said that authorities "don't believe there are any survivors" and that efforts underway at the scene of the crash have changed from a rescue operation to a recovery operation.
President  later questioned the air traffic controllers and helicopter pilots during a press briefing, suggesting that the  practices. Trump later defended his statement by 
There is no information suggesting the crash was caused by DEI initiatives and reporters have pointed out that some of the policies Trump blamed were in place during his first presidential term.
What To Know
The U.S. Army earlier this week told Newsweek that it had identified two of the three soldiers aboard the Black Hawk helicopter as 28-year-old Staff Sgt. Ryan Austin O'Hara, of Lilburn, Georgia, and 39-year-old Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Loyd Eaves of Great Mills, Maryland.
For the past two days, the Army had withheld the name of the third soldier "at the request of the family." The third soldier and Eaves were listed as "status-whereabouts unknown," while O'Hara was listed as "believed to be deceased pending positive identification."
That all changed on Saturday at 5 p.m. ET when the Army identified the third pilot as Lobach and provided a statement from her family.
The U.S. Army said: "Cpt. Rebecca M. Lobach, of Durham, North Carolina, served as an aviation officer (15A) in the regular Army from July 2019 to January 2025. She has no deployments. She was assigned to the 12th Aviation Battalion, Ft Belvoir, Va. Her awards include the Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Medal and Army Service Ribbon."
It added: "Our deepest condolences go out to her family, and all the families who are mourning the loss of their loved ones impacted by this devastating accident. We continue to work with the families of our fallen Soldiers and support the ongoing investigations."
Lobach's family also released a statement, saying: "We are devastated by the loss of our beloved Rebecca. She was a bright star in all our lives. She was kind, generous, brilliant, funny, ambitious and strong. No one dreamed bigger or worked harder to achieve her goals. We request that you please respect our privacy as we grieve this devastating loss."
What People Are Saying
Davis Winkie, the White House reporter for USA Today, wrote on X, formerly Twitter: "I'm heartbroken to share that my friend Capt. Rebecca Lobach died in Wednesday evening's crash near DC's National Airport. Rebecca was brilliant and fearless, a talented pilot and a PT stud. We trained and commissioned together from [UNC Army ROTC], and we had a lot of fun along the way, too. We were both latecomers to the ROTC program, enrolling partway through the third year, and quickly bonded over being the new kids on the block."
Winkie goes on to share personal anecdotes about his time with Lobach, .
In their statement, the Lobach family said: "Rebecca began her career in the United States Army as a distinguished military graduate in ROTC at the University of North Carolina, and was in the top 20% of cadets nationwide. She achieved the rank of Captain, having twice served as a Platoon Leader and as a Company Executive Officer in the 12th Aviation Battalion, Davison Army Airfield, Fort Belvoir, Virginia. With more than 450 hours of flight time, she earned certification as a pilot-in-command after extensive testing by the most senior and experienced pilots in her battalion."
"Rebecca was a warrior and would not hesitate to defend her country in battle. But she was as graceful as she was fierce: in addition to her duties as an Army aviator, Rebecca was honored to serve as a White House Military Social Aide, volunteering to support the President and First Lady in hosting countless White House events, including ceremonies awarding the Medal of Honor and the Presidential Medal of Freedom."
"Rebecca cared about people, and she extended to individuals the same fearless defense she gave to this nation. She was proud of the difference she made as a certified Sexual Harassment/Assault Response and Prevention (SHARP) Victim Advocate and hoped to continue her education so she could serve this country as a physician when her time with the Army ended. She once said, "My experiences with SHARP have reinforced my resolve to serve others with compassion, understanding, and the resources necessary for healing."
"Rebecca was many things. She was a daughter, sister, partner, and friend. She was a servant, a caregiver, an advocate. Most of all, she loved and was loved. Her life was short, but she made a difference in the lives of all who knew her. Our hearts break for the other families who have lost loved ones in this national tragedy and we mourn with them," the family concluded.
What Happens Next
The search effort continues to find the bodies of the three soldiers as well as the remaining passengers of American Airlines Flight 5342, of which around 20 remain missing at this time.
Update, 2/1/25 at 6:16 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional information, context and quotes. 


Graphic

 
Captain Rebecca Lobach US Army
Provided by U.S. Army
Captain Rebecca Lobach, of Durham, North Carolina, served as an aviation officer (15A) in the regular Army from July 2019 to January 2025. She has no deployments. She was assigned to the 12th Aviation Battalion, Ft Belvoir, Va.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
