




The Daily Caller
February 14, 2025 Friday 08:33 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; defense
Length: 501 words
Byline: Wallace White, Contributor, 
Body



The U.S. Army announced Friday that it would no longer be accepting transgender applicants or supporting sex-change procedures.
The announcement comes after Department of Defense (DOD) Secretary Pete Hegseth  a memo Feb. 7 to officially bring the department in line with President Donald Trump's Jan. 27 executive , which banned transgender members from the whole armed forces as well as sex change procedures. Exact figures vary, but a DOD  published in September 2022 estimates that 1.7% of active service members in 2021 were “gender minorities,” which includes transgender individuals.
“The #USArmy will no longer allow transgender individuals to join the military and will stop performing or facilitating procedures associated with gender transition for service members,” the Army  on X Friday. 

The Pentagon, headquarters of the U.S. Department of Defense, is seen from the air on February 8, 2025, in Washington, DC. (Photo by J. David Ake/Getty Images)
Hegseth stated in his memo that transgender service members couldn't meet “the rigorous standards” needed to serve effectively.
“Individuals with gender dysphoria have volunteered to serve our country and will be treated with dignity and respect,” Hegseth's memo reads. “The Undersecretary for Defense for Personnel and Readiness is authorized and delegated the authority to provide additional policy and implementation guidance outside of the normal DoD issuance process, including guidance regarding service by Service members with a current diagnosis or history of gender dysphoria, to implement this direction.”
Former President Joe Biden  Trump's first-term ban on transgender service members in 2021. Over his four years in office, LGBT and  initiatives saw a renaissance in the armed services.
Trump also  all diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the military in a bid to promote “meritocracy” and to facilitate the “elimination of race-based and sex-based discrimination.”
“Success in this existential mission requires a singular focus on developing the requisite warrior ethos, and the pursuit of military excellence cannot be diluted to accommodate political agendas or other ideologies harmful to unit cohesion,” Trump's executive order reads.
“The Army is ensuring compliance with recent executive actions,” U.S. Army Spokesperson Christopher Surridge told the Daily Caller News Foundation.
Editor's note: This article has been updated to include comment from the Army.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
A United States Army M1 Abrams main battle tank participates in the U.S. Army Europe and Africa International Tank Challenge on February 11, 2025 at Grafenwoehr, Germany. Five nations are competing in the two week competition at the U.S. 7th Army Training Command's Grafenwoehr training area in Bavaria. (Photo by Sean Gallup/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
