




telegraph.co.uk
January 31, 2025 Friday 3:10 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:4
Length: 906 words
Byline: By Memphis Barker, Senior Foreign Correspondent, Connor Stringer, Deputy US Editor
Highlight: Families are left ‘totally broken’ after rescuers recover victims of Washington DC crash
Body


The female pilot killed in the   will not be named, the US Army said.
The army made the a highly unusual decision at the request of the family not to release the name of one of the three soldiers killed when a military Black Hawk collided with a passenger jet on Wednesday evening.
The army identified two of the soldiers killed as Staff Sgt Ryan Austin O’Hara and Chief WO2 Andrew Loyd Eaves, but did not provide details about the third.
“At the request of the family, the name of the third soldier will not be released at this time,” an army statement said.
President Donald Trump has suggested, without evidence, that the deadly mid-air collision was the result of the Federal Aviation Administration’s efforts to hire a more diverse workforce.
Pete Hegseth, US defense secretary, while at the White House speaking about the crash on Thursday, also took aim at diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) in the military and government.
On Friday Mr Trump said the helicopter was to blame for the fatal crash.
Washington’s Ronald Reagan airport banned helicopters from flying parts of two routes within its radius after the crash and the US president said the military aircraft was “flying too high” at the time of the collision.
CNN later reported that flight-tracking data showed the helicopter was flying 100ft above the maximum allowed altitude.
The Black Hawk helicopter was conducting a training flight for a female pilot who has not yet been identified.
She was being overseen by Chief WO2 Eaves, who had more than 1,000 hours of flying experience and would have been expected to take over the controls in the event of an emergency.
All three soldiers on the army aircraft were killed in the crash  , as well as the 64 passengers and crew on American Airlines flight 5342.
The crew chief of the Black Hawk helicopter that collided with a passenger jet on Thursday has been identified as Ryan O’Hara, a father-of-one.
O’Hara, 28, would have sat in the back of the helicopter on its training mission   above Washington DC.
Jonathan Koziol, the chief of staff of the army’s aviation directorate, said that Chief WO2 Eaves, the instructor pilot on the flight, had logged more than 1,000 hours of flight time.
The third soldier on the aircraft, a female pilot commanding the flight, has yet to be named. She had more than 500 hours of flying experience, Mr Koziol said.
Mr Hegseth told a press conference on Thursday that the UH-60 Black Hawk crew were “fairly experienced” and had been wearing night-vision goggles at the time of the crash, which should have allowed them to spot the approaching airliner.
He added that the   whether there was an “elevation issue” with the Black Hawk route.
Bradley Bowman, a former Black Hawk pilot who had flown the same path as the doomed craft, told CBS News that it was crucial for pilots to keep the helicopter below 200ft.
“You literally have aircraft coming in and out, and you have to stay at that altitude… to make sure there isn’t a collision. For some reason that failed last night.”
Donald Trump   for the crash, without providing evidence, and accused the Black Hawk of taking an   ahead of the crash.
Mr Koziol dismissed questions on the ability of female pilots in remarks to reporters on Thursday.
“As for women in the military, flying a helicopter is like driving a car,” he said. “You just got to learn how to do it and anyone can do it with the proper training.
“Both pilots had flown this specific route before at night – this wasn’t something new to either one of them. These are our top pilots doing this national capital region,” he added.
The Black Hawk crew were part of Bravo Company of the 12 Aviation Battalion based at Fort Belvoir, Virginia.
Carrie Eaves, the wife of Chief WO2 Eaves, posted pictures of her husband in uniform as she confirmed he was on board.
“We ask that you pray for our family and friends and for all the other families that are suffering today. We ask for peace while we grieve.”
A transgender military pilot on Friday posted a proof of life video to dispel rumours she was on board the Black Hawk helicopter.
Jo Ellis, who served in Iraq and is a pilot with the Virginia Army National Guard, condemned the rumours that she died on the flight. 
Rescuers have   of the freezing waters of the Potomac River, with the search continuing into Friday morning.
The Marine Corps junior reserve officers’ training corp at Parkview High in Gwinnett County posted a condolence message on Facebook confirming Sgt O’Hara was one of its former students.
“It is with a heavy heart that we announce the passing of one of our own. Class of 2014, former cadet Ryan O’Hara was the crew chief on the Black Hawk involved in last night’s crash in DC.”
The post, which has been deleted, added that Sgt O’Hara is “fondly remembered as a guy who would fix things around the ROTC gym as well as a vital member of the rifle team”.
Gary, O’Hara’s father, was watching the television when news of the crash broke.
“I just had a gut feeling when I saw the story breaking,” he told The Washington Post. Two army officials delivered the news that his son was among the casualties on Thursday morning.
“As a parent, how do you take the news like this and not be totally broken?” said Mr O’Hara.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
