




The Guardian (London)
February 28, 2025 Friday 9:11 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:1
Length: 401 words
Byline: Michael Sainato
Highlight: Email offers up to $25,000 but employees note severance and unused leave compensation would add up to moreDon’t let a billionaire’s algorithm control what you read. Download our free app to get trusted reporting.
Body


The US Department of Education sent an email to employees department-wide on Friday offering up to $25,000 to voluntarily resign or retire, or take severance, whichever is less.
The email, obtained by the Guardian, states “this is a one-time offer in advance of a very significant Reduction In Force for the US Department of Education” and gives employees until the end of day Monday to accept.
According to a Department of Education employee, the email was sent, retracted, then sent back out to employees.
“This is beyond manipulative and misleading,” claimed the worker, who requested to remain anonymous for fear of retaliation. “Also, if you leave voluntarily, you are not eligible for unemployment.”
They noted their severance and unused leave compensation that they would receive through a reduction in force order would be several times more than the buyout offer. But with the buyout offer, they would only receive the lesser amount. They provided the Guardian a copy of their benefits, which notes their current severance amount and eligibility.
Another Department of Education employee confirmed this claim, adding “if you take it thinking you’ll get $25,000 but your severance is $15,000, you’ll get the $15,000”.
The agreement also includes a stipulation that the employee would have to pay back the buyout if they are employed or contracted with the federal government in the next five years, according to a copy of the voluntary separation incentive payment.
“Under a reduction in force, you have more rights to re-employment and unemployment,” the second employee noted.
The application also affirms “My decision is entirely voluntary. I have not been coerced.”
The Department of Education and White House were contacted for comment.
  surfaced earlier this month that the White House had been preparing an executive order to abolish the US Department of Education.
Dozens of employees at the Department of Education were   on administrative leave in response to Donald Trump’s anti-DEI orders earlier this month. At least 39 probationary employees were also   and $900m in research funding at the department was cancelled by Elon Musk’s so-called “department of government efficiency”.
Trump’s nominee for secretary of education, Linda McMahon,   she “wholeheartedly” agreed with Trump’s plan to dismantle the department, with her final Senate confirmation vote   for Monday.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
