




telegraph.co.uk
February 8, 2025 Saturday 9:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 830 words
Byline: By Benedict Smith, US Reporter
Highlight: Nigel Farage accuses Joe Biden of ‘massive societal and political interference’ in UK
Body


US foreign aid funded legal advice for  , as well as a raft of diversity initiatives in the UK, The Telegraph can reveal.
Joe Biden’s administration donated at least $120,000 to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) and LGBT initiatives across the UK, which included Pride-themed concerts and a book festival interview series on “gender identity and inequality”.
Donald Trump this week began  , claiming US taxpayers were funding “radical” Left-wing initiatives around the world.
  accused Mr Biden of pushing a “massive societal and political interference” programme in Britain and heralded the return of “common sense” under Mr Trump.
Allies of the US president claim taxpayer dollars have been used for Left-wing vanity projects, including transgender operas and musicals, but critics say abolishing USAid will . 
Virtually all the aid to Left-wing British organisations identified by The Telegraph came from the US state department, as opposed to USAid. The department is likely to absorb USAid if the latter is successfully dissolved by the current administration.
In Oct 2022, the department approved funding of $25,000 to Rainbow Migration, a company that provides legal advice to “LGBTQI+ people” attempting to claim asylum in the UK.
The same year, it signed a deal with the Edinburgh International Book Festival to provide $40,000 for a series of interviews “engaging with social issues around gender identity and inequality, racial equity, and diversity”.
It also approved $35,000 for a university in Ohio to create a series of exhibitions around the UK about “LGBTQ+ stories” during the Covid-19 pandemic.
In June 2024, as part of its diplomacy programme, the state department allocated $20,000 to “Classical Pride”, a concert series across London.
According to a description posted on a US government website, the concert highlighted the “importance of LGBTQ+ music and musicians to classical music, giving classical music a place in the wide-ranging Pride celebrations”.
The event began with a “classical drag” display featuring “stars of the London drag scene including Snow White Trash, Vinegar Strokes and Barbs”, as set out by a programme.
A maths conference in Bristol with a focus on “equity, diversity and inclusion”, and a “diversity and inclusion” programme with the Fulbright Commission exchange programme, also received US funding.
Mr Farage said he was relieved Mr Trump had replaced Mr Biden because “US taxpayer money will no longer poison British society”.
The Reform leader said the series of US government-approved programmes had been motivated by a “Leftist, globalist, woke agenda to completely transform the Western world, to break down all the institutions that we believe in”.
He added: “This is massive societal and political interference that has been coming from America. And Trump’s going to kill it… we’re getting back to good, basic, sound principles.”
Mr Trump’s efforts to disband USAid, the world’s largest single aid donor, were placed on hold on Friday owing to a legal challenge.
Elon Musk, the US government’s efficiency tsar and billionaire owner of Tesla, declared on Monday that he was “feeding USAid into the woodchipper”.
Karoline Leavitt, the White House press secretary, accused the Biden administration of using USAid to . 
This included $1.5 million to advance DEI in Serbia, $47,000 for a “trans opera” in Colombia, $32,000 for a trans comic book in Peru, and $70,000 to produce a DEI musical in Ireland, she told reporters.
Proponents for USAid argue it has saved the lives of tens of millions of people around the world since it was created by John F Kennedy in the 1960s, and that plans to dismiss all but 294 employees would effectively kill it.
Some argue that dismantling the agency is a strategic blunder that will see the US retreat from the world stage and surrender global influence to China. Between 2000 and 2021, Beijing provided some $1.34 trillion to developing nations in a massive exercise of soft power.
The Tony Blair Institute, founded by the former prime minister, was allocated more than $14 million during Mr Biden’s four years in office to fund aid work in Lebanon and sub-Saharan Africa.
USAid-funded activities including “tolerance and bias” workshops for youth groups in Lebanon and a scheme to develop “universal access to clean energy” in sub-Saharan Africa.
A US state department spokesman said that Marco Rubio, the US secretary of state, had “paused all US foreign assistance funded by or through the state department and USAid for review” following an executive order from Mr Trump.
“We are reviewing all foreign assistance programmes to ensure they are efficient and consistent with US foreign policy under the America First agenda,” he added.

Load-Date: February 8, 2025


End of Document
