




thetimes.co.uk
February 2, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 889 words
Byline: Irwin Stelzer, Contributor
Highlight: Loose fiscal policy under Donald Trump may leave economic indicators flashing redder over the next four years — as the Federal Reserve and bond markets know
Body


President Trump is pressing for an extension of his 2017 tax cut, and for removing taxes on tips, overtime pay and pensions. Tax rates are to be lowered from 21 to 15 per cent on corporations that build facilities in America. Princeton University economist Alan Blinder, a former vice-chairman of the Federal Reserve and no Donald Trump fan, reckons that the president’s “income tax cuts should spur slightly faster growth, perhaps roughly offsetting the drag from higher tariffs”. 
Add that “tariffs do not have a significant or persistent effect on inflation,” as Fed governor Christopher Waller puts it. As Americans who have incorporated Aussie-isms into the language might put it, “no worries”.
Now, worry. We are dealing with a president with a long history in the private sector of near-ruinous excessive borrowing. During his first stay in the Oval Office, he added about $8 trillion to the national debt. Old IOUs paying 2 per cent interest are now coming due and being replaced by money borrowed at double that rate. Treasury secretary Scott Bessent would like to reduce the deficit, now running at close to 7 per cent of GDP, to 3 per cent, but he is unlikely to be able to hit that target and may even prove unable to prevent the deficit from increasing, even relative to gross domestic product (GDP), its growth slowed by none other than the bond market vigilantes.
This group, which Trump has no ability to bully, have saddled up and loaded their saddle bags with government IOUs. The vigilantes are prepared to sell and sell if deficits persist, driving down the prices of these government bonds, and raising interest rates not only on government borrowings but on mortgages, already double pre-pandemic levels, credit cards and business loans.

The Federal Reserve Board’s monetary policy committee knows we are in for a period of loose fiscal policy, which may be an unstated reason for why it has decided to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged, rather than continue cutting rates. Trump, who had earlier demanded that interest rates “drop immediately”, posted on Truth Social: “If the Fed had spent less time on DEI, on gender ideology, ‘green’ energy and fake climate change, Inflation would never have been a problem. Instead, we suffered the worst Inflation in the History of our Country!” Fed chairman Jerome Powell says he has not spoken with the president.

Informed guesses on the contours of the American economy of the future are now possible, although, given Trump’s volatility, subject always to the warning label “at the time of this writing”. When Trump departs the scene in four years, quietly we hope, deficits will be higher than when he returned to the Oval Office. So will interest rates. So will the inflation rate.
Bessent will find his plan to reduce deficits to 3 per cent more a quixotic impossible dream than an attainable goal. The Fed will find itself debating whether to leave rates unchanged or raise them, as it struggles to reach its goal of holding the inflation rate to 2 per cent. 
Meanwhile, deficits will roll on, adding an estimated $20 trillion (£16 trillion) to the $36.4 trillion national debt by the time vice-president JD Vance, who favours driving down the value of the dollar — its inflationary effect notwithstanding — serves out what will probably prove to be his only term.

It is, of course, possible that Elon Musk will squeeze the odd trillion out of spending by persuading Congress to loosen the stranglehold of regulations besetting entrepreneurs, eager to dip into investors’ cash hoards now that Trump has released their animal spirits. 
But others have broken their picks on the US debt mountain. And Musk might have passed the zenith of his influence. Trump’s chief of staff denied him office space in the White House West Wing, and his Department of Government Efficiency (Doge) has been incorporated into the United States Digital Service, which reports annually to Congress. Mars beckons.
There is a better chance that the economy’s productivity — its output of goods and services per unit of labour and capital input — will accelerate. That would lower the cost of producing a majority of goods and services. But even if AI develops to justify the trillions being hurled at it, there are limits. The late economist William Baumol, an expert on analysing productivity, once wrote that you cannot increase the efficiency of a quartet by firing one musician.
Perhaps the best news is that there is time for America’s politicians to begin a serious assault on the deficit. Goldman Sachs’s Investment Strategy Group, drawing on a wide range of data and models, concluded: “The level of debt to GDP is still comfortably below estimates of the level at which it would become truly unsustainable.” That would be the 166 to 188 per cent of GDP that it might reach in 2050, compared to the current level of about 123 per cent.
It is important that current office holders do not learn of this computation, as most lack interest in any emergency that might not emerge until after their time in power.
                    Irwin Stelzer is a business adviser                 

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
