




telegraph.co.uk
February 26, 2025 Wednesday 6:26 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:1
Length: 449 words
Byline: By Benedict Smith, US Reporter
Highlight: Dozens of employees discuss polyamory and sexual intercourse after transitioning in chatroom set up for sensitive security issues
Body


Intelligence workers co-opted an official government chatroom to exchange sexually-explicit messages and advice on transitioning, according to Donald Trump’s new security chief.
The platform was built for sensitive security issues, but dozens of employees are alleged to have used it to discuss polyamory, sex change surgeries, oestrogen injections and pronouns instead.
 , the US’ national intelligence director, said on Tuesday evening that she had issued a directive to sack the more than 100 people who participated in the chats.
“[This] is really just an egregious violation of trust,” she told Fox News, accusing the employees of violating “basic rules and standards around professionalism”.
In one alleged exchange, officials are said to have discussed polyamory: the practice of having two or more sexual relationships at the same time.
“[A] polycule is a polyamorous group,” one employee said.
“A is my [girlfriend], and B-G are her partners… then B&C are dating but not C&D, nor E, F, or G with any of the others, though there are several MWB (metas-with-benefits) connections.”
Another worker claimed to be part of a nine-member “polycule” and that “some of our friends are practically poly-mers, with all the connected compounds”.
The messages, exchanged on a platform hosted by the National Security Agency (NSA), were allegedly unearthed by the conservative activist Christopher Rufo.
Employees exploited the NSA’s commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives – which Mr Trump, the US president,   – to talk about their “kinks” as part of their work duties, Mr Rufo claimed.
Sex change surgeries, and sexual intercourse after transitioning were a popular source of discussion on the chatroom.
One official said they had a sense of “euphoria” when they urinated post-surgery, while another, talking about oestrogen injections, said: “Look, I just enjoy helping other people experience boobs.”
At least one employee talked about identifying as “it/its”, and others argued that refusing to use their pronouns amounted to “erasing” a transgender identity.
Ms Gabbard sent a memo to the intelligence agencies, instructing them to identify and sack those who participated in the “obscene, pornographic and sexually explicit” chats.
“Today’s action in holding these individuals accountable, is just the beginning of what we are seeing  ,” she said, blaming the “brazen” action by her own employees on a lack of accountability in the intelligence community.
She vowed to “clean house, root out that rot and corruption, and weaponisation and politicisation, so we can start to rebuild that trust in these institutions”.

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
