




telegraph.co.uk
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 8:18 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Version:1
Length: 7036 words
Byline: By Chris Price, Business Live Blogger and Alex Singleton, Business Reporter
Body


US imports surged to a record high in December, official figures showed today as Donald Trump’s threat of tariffs triggered a rush among American companies to import goods.
The US trade deficit ballooned to a three-year high during the month, according to the Commerce Department, as imports surged by 3.5pc to an all-time peak of $364.9bn (£291.5bn).
Exports fell 2.6pc to $266.5bn, taking the deficit for the world’s largest economy to $98.4bn, up from $78.9bn in November.
The surge in imports came a month after Donald Trump won the US election with promises to impose universal global tariffs, targeting countries that had significant trade deficits with America.
Tariffs on China came into effect on Tuesday and the US president delayed imposing levies on Canada and Mexico until March in exchange for concessions.
He said the EU, which has a wide trade deficit with the US, would “definitely” face tariffs.
Thomas Ryan of Capital Economics said: “The strength of imports appears largely driven by businesses rushing orders ahead of potential tariffs, a trend unlikely to reverse any time soon given there is still the risk of 25pc tariffs on Mexico and Canada next month.
“Even though survey data point to an imminent rebound in exports, this suggests the trade deficit will remain wide this quarter.”
Carl Weinberg and Mary Chen of High Frequency Economics added: “The jump in import volumes may reflect companies efforts to accelerate imports to beat Trump import threats.”
They added this is hard to prove, given that strong exports also indicate “a fast-growing economy that is near its full potential level of output”.
                     Read the latest updates below.                   
                     05 Feb 2025-08:17PM GMT                   
                     Signing off...                   
Thanks for joining us today as we’ve covered tensions in world trade after Donald Trump imposed fresh tariffs on China.
You can read all the latest from The Telegraph . 
                     05 Feb 2025-07:38PM GMT                   
                     Wall Street rises despite losses among tech firms                   
Google’s parent company and other tech stocks are weighing down a rise on Wall Street today as the focus swings back toward how much profit businesses are making.
The S&P 500 rose 0.2pc. The Dow Jones Industrial Average of 30 leading US companies was up 0.6pc, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite fell 0.1pc.
Alphabet sank 8pc even though Google’s parent company reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. Investors focused instead on slowing growth for its cloud business, whose revenue fell short of forecasts. They also homed in on the $75bn (£60bn) Alphabet is budgeting for investments this year, roughly $15bn more than analysts expected, as it remains in the rush to develop artificial-intelligence technology.
Pressure is growing on Alphabet from Wall Street, and “investors will be asking what new products will be emerging to warrant the higher level of investment,” according to UBS analysts led by Stephen Ju.
Advanced Micro Devices fell 7.2pc even though the chip company edged past profit expectations for the latest quarter. It also felt the pain of high expectations. AMD gave a forecast for revenue in the first three months of 2025 which suggested growth of 30pc from a year earlier, but that wasn’t as strong as analysts expected.
                     05 Feb 2025-07:23PM GMT                   
                     Canada’s trade surplus with US spikes after threat of tariffs                   
Canada posted a trade surplus in December, its national statistics agency said today, driven in part by a widening trade gap with the United States.
The trade surplus with the United States widened from 8.2bn Canadian dollars in November to 11.3bn Canadian dollars in December.
Overall, Statistics Canada put the monthly surplus with the rest of the world at 708m Canadian dollars (£396m), the first surplus in 10 months. Exports rose by 4.9pc.
The booming surplus with the US was probably linked to increased trade volumes among companies trying to plan ahead after Trump threatened to impose a 25pc import tariff on all Canadian goods, according to TD Economics.
“Trade-related uncertainty has likely led companies to stockpile inventories, temporarily boosting trade,” Maria Solovieva, of TD Economics, said.
Mr Trump announced his plans to impose tariffs on Canada after he won the November election.
He signed an executive order on Saturday for the measures to go into force on Tuesday, prompting Canada to unveil a retaliatory package.
On Monday, he agreed to pause his tariffs for 30 days while the two sides negotiate further.
                     05 Feb 2025-06:08PM GMT                   
                     Marks & Spencer backs Starmer’s bid for closer ties with EU                   
Marks & Spencer has backed Sir Keir Starmer’s bid for   to end years of “Brexit bureaucracy”.
 , Alex Freudmann, M&S’s head of food, urged the Prime Minister to “move with pace” to strip away unnecessary red tape governing trade across the Irish Sea.
Rules surrounding shipments to the island of Ireland were burdening M&S with millions of pounds extra in costs, delaying trucks and saddling the company with “paperwork that takes hours to complete”, he said.
M&S has 39 shops in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, alongside more than 300 standalone food stores in the UK. It ships thousands of products across the Irish Sea, including sandwiches, ready meals and fresh produce.

                     05 Feb 2025-05:52PM GMT                   
                     China accuses US of ‘unfounded and false allegations’                   
China has issued a complaint at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) after Donald Trump’s administration hiked tariffs on the world’s second-largest economy.
In a filing released by the WTO, China said that Mr Trump’s new tariffs were “imposed on the basis of unfounded and false allegations concerning China”.
The filing said: “Furthermore, the 10pc additional tariffs imposed are in excess of the United States’ bound rates in its Schedule of Concessions and Commitments annexed to the GATT 1994. The measures at issue not only violate WTO rules, but are discriminatory and protectionist in nature.”
China’s complaint, to the WTO’s Dispute Settlement Body, urges discussions between the two countries.
                     05 Feb 2025-05:35PM GMT                   
                     Trudeau and Starmer speak on boosting trade amid Trump tariff threats                   
Sir Keir Starmer and his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau had a call today in which they discussed how to boost trade.
A Downing Street readout of the meeting said: “Discussing recent global events, the Prime Minister said he welcomed an international conversation on the importance of trade and collaboration between allies and partners. The Prime Minister also paid tribute to Prime Minister Trudeau’s leadership, including his focus on stemming the deadly drug trade across Canada’s borders.
“The leaders also discussed the strong trading relationship between the UK and Canada, worth £26bn, and how together both countries could go further to support growth and deliver for the hard-working Canadian and British people.
It came just days after Donald Trump threatened 25pc tariffs on America’s northern neighbour.
                     05 Feb 2025-05:23PM GMT                   
                     Tesla eclipsed by Chinese electric car rival as Britain turns against Musk                   
Chinese electric car titan BYD has overtaken Tesla in British sales for the first time as public opinion sours towards Elon Musk.
BYD sold 1,614 passenger cars last month, with Tesla selling just 1,458 by comparison, according to data published by the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT).
The figures represented a 500pc annual increase for BYD, while Tesla’s sales were down about 8pc.
It marks the first time that BYD has outsold Tesla on a monthly basis.
Mr Musk, Tesla’s boss and a key ally of Donald Trump, has suffered a drop in popularity since he waded into European politics to   in the UK and the AfD in Germany, polling shows. Separate figures published in Germany on Wednesday show Tesla’s sales plummeted by 59pc there last month.

                     05 Feb 2025-05:12PM GMT                   
                     UK interest rates will fall to 3.5pc in a year, says economist                   
Interest rates will fall from 4.75pc to 3.5pc by early 2026, an economist has claimed.
Ashley Webb, of Capital Economics, said: “Despite the recent weak news on activity and the uncertainty around the global outlook due to Trump’s US import tariffs, the stronger news on domestic price pressures means the Bank of England will probably continue to cut interest rates only gradually.
“But while CPI inflation may rebound from 2.5pc in December last year to around 3pc later this year, we think a fall to below 2pc next year will prompt the Bank to cut interest rates from 4.75pc now to 3.5pc by early 2026, rather than to 3.75-4pc as investors anticipate.”
Economists polled by Reuters unanimously said they expect the base rate to fall by a quarter of a percentage point this week, taking it to 4.5pc. Traders are also fully pricing in the cut.
                     05 Feb 2025-05:06PM GMT                   
                     FTSE closes up as traders look towards rate cut                   
The FTSE 100 closed up today after two straight days of losses. It was buoyed by gains in shares of drug heavyweight GSK and gold miners, while investors turned their focus to the Bank of England’s rate decision this week.
The index ended 0.6pc higher, while the domestically focussed mid-cap FTSE 250 rose 0.5pc.
GSK jumped 7.6pc after the launched a £2bn share buyback and lifted its long-term sales target.
Meanwhile, precious metal miners surged 3.6pc, as gold prices hit another record high.
All eyes will be on the Bank of England’s monetary policy decision on Thursday, with markets having fully priced in a quarter of a percentage point cut.
Geoff Yu, senior market strategist at BNY, said: “We expect the BoE to cut rates by [a quarter of a percentage point] and easing guidance will be strengthened relative to market expectations. At least one [quarter point] cut per quarter should be in play as growth risks remain heavily to the downside.”
                     05 Feb 2025-04:54PM GMT                   
                     Trump China tariffs turns shippers into ‘headless chickens’                   
The US Postal Service said today it would again accept parcels from China and Hong Kong, reversing a temporary suspension after Donald Trump scrapped an exemption used by retailers including Temu, Shein, and Amazon to ship low-value packages duty free to the US.
The about-face contributed to growing confusion among retailers and shipping firms over how to deal with Mr Trump’s new 10pc tariff on all imports from China and his closure of the “de minimis” duty exemption for package imports valued at under $800.
“We’re all running around like headless chickens at this moment in time, trying to second-guess what’s going to happen. And in two weeks’ time we may be back to normal,” said Martin Palmer, co-founder of Hurricane Commerce, a cross-border ecommerce data provider.
“There has really been absolutely zero time for anyone to prepare for this,” said Maureen Cori, co-founder of New York-based consultancy Supply Chain Compliance. “What we really need is direction from the government on how to handle this without warning or notice.”
De minimis parcels are consolidated so that customs can clear hundreds or thousands of shipments at once, but they will now require individual clearances, significantly increasing the burden for postal services, brokers and customs agents, Ms Cori said.
The US Postal Service said that it was working with the US Customs and Border Protection agency to implement an efficient collection mechanism for the new China tariffs to ensure the least disruption to package delivery.
                     05 Feb 2025-04:25PM GMT                   
                     Trudeau holds summit to ‘diversify’ exports                   
Canadian businesses and union leaders will meet in Toronto on Friday to discuss diversifying trade and boosting the economy in the wake of US threats to impose tariffs.
Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau said the one-day meeting would group leaders in trade, business, public policy and trade unions to build what he called a long-term prosperity agenda.
The move underlined long-standing calls for measures to reduce reliance on the United States, which takes 75pc of all Canada’s goods and services exports.
The participants “will explore ways to grow Canada’s economy, make it easier to build and trade within the country, diversify export markets, and rejuvenate productivity,” he said.
Donald Trump said on Monday that he would delay the imposition of tariffs on Canadian exports by 30 days in return for concessions on border and crime enforcement.
Business groups have long complained about internal trade barriers between the 10 Canadian provinces and a drawn-out permitting process that means it can take years to develop and build mines, oil pipelines and other major industrial projects.
                     05 Feb 2025-04:01PM GMT                   
                     EU must not throw itself ‘into dust’ for Trump, says German minister                   
German finance minister Robert Habeck has insisted that the EU must act if Donald Trump’s administration imposes tariffs.
He told Germany’s Die Zeit newspaper: “A trade war is bad for Germany and bad for the USA. Tariffs on goods make goods more expensive and drive inflation. High tariffs also represent a high domestic political risk for Donald Trump. I hope that it will be possible to focus on the mutual benefit in the transatlantic partnership.
“If Europe cannot convince Donald Trump, Europe will have to react as Canada and Mexico are ready to do: with counter-tariffs. That’s prepared.”
He added: “I don’t want a trade war with the US. But we also must not allow ourselves to be pushed around and must not throw ourselves into the dust before Donald Trump. We have to act and negotiate with confidence.”
                     05 Feb 2025-03:53PM GMT                   
                     US services sector slows as threats of tariffs push up prices                   
The US economy is heading for a slowdown after figures for the services sector showed slowing growth.
Economic activity in the services sector still grew last month, according to a much-watched survey of US businesses by the Institute for Supply Management.
The services PMI was 52.8pc, with any reading about 50pc indicating expansion. But it was down by 1.2 percentage points compared with December.
Ruben Gargallo Abargues, of Capital Economics, said that the latest numbers on the US services sector reinforces his view that growth would struggle over the next couple of quarters.
He sauid: “The fall in the ISM services index to 52.8 in December lends some support to our view that GDP growth will slow in the next couple of quarters, albeit with the caveat that the surveys have proved to be a poor guide to GDP in recent quarters.
“The fall in the headline index to 52.8, from 54.0, reversed most of the increase in December.”
He noted that the ISM had “highlighted businesses’ concerns that the mere threat of tariffs was already causing prices to rise, even before the Trump administration imposed additional tariffs on China this week”.
                     05 Feb 2025-03:33PM GMT                   
                     Trump tariffs to inflict a ‘double whammy’ on US economy, think tank warns                   
Donald Trump’s plans for tariffs on products from China and other nations would hurt US exporters and lower living standards, a leading Washington DC think tank has said.
Clark Packard, of the libertarian Cato Institute, said: “Despite the president’s repeated assertions to the contrary, there is little doubt that Americans will suffer the cost of new tariffs. After all, we’ve been here before. More than a dozen academic studies found that US consumers bore nearly the entire brunt of tariffs imposed during Trump’s first term.
“In addition, the New York Federal Reserve found that tariffs imposed on imports from China cost the average American household about $830 per year after accounting for direct costs and efficiency losses. More tariffs will surely compound this pain.”
Mr Packard, a former adviser to Republican governor Nikki Haley of South Carolina, added: “Tariffs will cause the dollar to appreciate as demand for foreign currency to purchase imports drops. That, in turn, will make all American exports more expensive for foreign buyers and reduce sales.
“Trump’s tariff proposals would be a double whammy for many US companies, both exporters and importers. Beyond lower exports, they also will have to pay higher costs for the industrial supplies and capital goods that make up approximately half of US imports − many of which come from Canada, China and Mexico.”
                     05 Feb 2025-03:30PM GMT                   
                     US imports jump as companies try ‘to beat Trump’                   
The US trade gap swelled last year to nearly $920bn, according to government data, as deficits come under the spotlight with President Donald Trump’s return to the White House.
In 2024, the overall US trade deficit grew to $918.4 billion, widening 17pc from 2023 as imports ballooned more than exports, said the Commerce Department.
For all of last year, imports jumped by 6.6pc or $253.3bn while exports increased 3.9pc by $119.8bn.
In December alone, after Mr Trump’s election victory, the US deficit rose by nearly 25pc to $98.4bn.
Carl Weinberg and Mary Chen of High Frequency Economics said: “The jump in import volumes may reflect companies efforts to accelerate imports to beat Trump import threats.”
They added this is hard to prove, given that strong exports also indicate “a fast-growing economy that is near its full potential level of output.”
With that, I will head off for the day and leave you in the steady hands of Alex Singleton.
                     05 Feb 2025-03:09PM GMT                   
                     US ‘must shrink its fiscal deficit’, say economists                   
The US must “shrink its fiscal deficit” if it wants to get its trade imbalance under control, according to economists.
It is argued that more government spending, if it leads to a larger federal budget deficit, reduces the national savings rate and raises the trade deficit.
Robin Brooks of The Brookings Institution think tank pointed out that the world’s largest economy is importing goods faster than during the Covid recovery.
                     05 Feb 2025-02:44PM GMT                   
                     US stocks fall at opening bell                   
The tech-heavy Nasdaq on Wall Street as downbeat forecasts from Alphabet and AMD added to the US tariff woes.
The Nasdaq Composite dropped 0.5pc to 19,553.84 while the benchmark S&P 500 fell 0.1pc to 6,029.66.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.2pc to 44,621.46. 
                     05 Feb 2025-02:26PM GMT                   
                     US trade deficit surges amid rush to avoid Trump tariffs                   
The US trade deficit ballooned to a three-year high in December, official figures showed today, as Donald Trump’s threat of tariffs triggered a rush among American companies to import goods.
Imports surged by 3.5pc during the month while exports dropped by 2.6pc, taking the deficit for the world’s largest economy to $98.4bn, up from $78.9bn, according to the Commerce Department.
Thomas Ryan of Capital Economics said: “The strength of imports appears largely driven by businesses rushing orders ahead of potential tariffs, a trend unlikely to reverse any time soon given there is still the risk of 25pc tariffs on Mexico and Canada next month. 
“Even though survey data point to an imminent rebound in exports, this suggests the trade deficit will remain wide this quarter.”
US president ordered tariffs on some of the countries with the largest imbalances with the world’s largest economy.
Tariffs on China came into effect on Tuesday and Mr Trump delayed imposing levies on Canada and Mexico in exchange for cessions.
He said the EU, which has a wide trade deficit with the US, would “definitely” face tariffs.
                     05 Feb 2025-01:52PM GMT                   
                     US Postal Service to resume China package deliveries                   
The US Postal Service (USPS) said it will resume accepting all inbound mail and packages from China and Hong Kong on Wednesday, a day after temporarily suspending such service.
It said: “The USPS and Customs and Border Protection are working closely together to implement an efficient collection mechanism for the new China tariffs to ensure the least disruption to package delivery.”
                     05 Feb 2025-01:44PM GMT                   
                     Starmer ‘determined to reduce barriers to trade’ after EU meeting                   
Sir Keir Starmer said he is committed to reducing trade barriers after he met with European leaders earlier this week just as markets were digesting Donald Trump’s announcement of tariffs on China, Canada and Mexico.
Speaking earlier at the beginning of Prime Minister’s Questions he said: “On Monday, I met other European leaders in Brussels to discuss vitally important focus on security and defence in a volatile world.
“I am determined to reduce barriers to trade, make it easier for businesses to do business and ensuring a better relationship with our European partners delivers for the British people.”
                     05 Feb 2025-01:40PM GMT                   
                     Bitcoin below $100,000 amid trade war threat                   
The price of bitcoin remained below $100,000 for a second day as US tariffs came into effect in China.
The world’s largest cryptocurrency was trading around $98,000, having dropped as low as $92,000 on Sunday.
                     05 Feb 2025-01:15PM GMT                   
                     Oil falls amid fears tariffs will hit global economy                   
Oil prices fell in volatile trading amid concerns that a trade war between the US and China will hurt global growth.
Brent crude slid 1.3pc towards $75 a barrel even as Donald Trump ramped up economic pressure on Iran. 
US-produced West Texas Intermediate rfell 1.3pc below $72.
The US president signed a directive on Tuesday asking Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent to use sanctions and tougher enforcement of existing measures on Tehran.
However, crude prices fell as a trade war between the world’s two largest economies risked a hit to economic growth and global consumption. 
Bjarne Schieldrop of SEB said: “Trump tariff chaos and trade war is no good for global growth and oil demand growth.
“But supply disruptions, as so often before, can then rapidly and suddenly turn everything around.”
                     05 Feb 2025-12:43PM GMT                   
                     Trump is ‘showing the rest of the world who’s boss’                   
Donald Trump has a real chance to “topple” the Chinese Communist Party using tariffs, Telegraph readers have said.
Here is a selection of views from this article’s comments section and  :
                     05 Feb 2025-12:17PM GMT                   
                     UK stocks could be ‘winner’ amid Trump tariff turmoil, says JP Morgan                   
British stocks could be a “relative winner” under any impending turmoil in global markets, according to one of Wall Street’s biggest banks.
JP Morgan said that London offered a “defensive” market for investors which “performs well on a relative basis during downturns”.
Investors have sold off stocks around the world this week amid the threat of tariffs from Donald Trump.
The FTSE 100 has fallen more than 1pc so far this week, while the FTSE 250 has dropped 1.6pc after the US announced levies on China, Canada and Mexico.
JP Morgan analyst Mislav Matejka said: “If global equities consolidate, the UK could be a relative winner.”
He added the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 were “extremely cheap”, having been “de-rated strongly since the 2016 Brexit vote”.
Former Brexit minister Lord Frost said this week that leaving the EU meant Britain could respond to external events “in the best possible way” while the larger and slower-moving EU could not be so quick on its feet. 
                     05 Feb 2025-12:00PM GMT                   
                     Meet the other tech billionaire close to Trump – and Tony Blair                   
Four of the world’s five richest men had . 
Silicon Valley tycoons Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos and Mark Zuckerberg sat shoulder-to-shoulder at the event while Bernard Arnault, the French fashion magnate, was nearby, behind Barack Obama.
The missing man was Larry Ellison. The 80-year-old, who rounds out the top five wealth list, was notably absent from the pageantry of the inauguration as the world’s cameras were trained on Washington.
                     05 Feb 2025-11:37AM GMT                   
                     Wall Street to fall as Trump in ‘no rush’ to speak to Xi                   
US stock indexes are on track to fall at the opening bell as Donald Trump said he was in “no rush” to speak to Xi Jinping about tariffs.
A series of negative corporate updates have also worried investors.
The Nasdaq was poised for a sharp fall as Google-owner Alphabet and chip-maker AMD issued subdued forecasts
Alphabet dropped 7.5pc in premarket trading after posting a deceleration in cloud revenue growth, missing analysts’ expectations.
AMD lost 8.2pc after chief executive Lisa Su said the company’s data centre sales-a proxy for its AI revenue-in the current quarter would be down about 7pc from the just-ended quarter.
Meanwhile, Apple shed 2.5pc as China’s competition regulator prepares for a possible investigation of the iPhone maker, Bloomberg News reported.
In premarket trading, the Nasdaq 100 was down 0.8pc, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.1pc and the S&P 500 dropped 0.5pc.
                     05 Feb 2025-11:25AM GMT                   
                     Wegovy maker not immune to Trump tariffs, warns boss                   
Wegovy maker Novo Nordisk is not immune to US tariffs Donald Trump on the European Union, its chief executive said.
Lars Fruergaard Jorgensen said he remained confident that its business is well-positioned in the event Donald Trump follows through with his threat to impose levies on the bloc.
He was speaking as the obesity drug maker forecast slower growth this year of between 16pc and 24pc, which is less than the 26pc growth seen in 2024.
Analysts and investors described its fourth quarter results as “good enough” to ease nerves about stiff competition from rival Eli Lilly.
Novo Nordisk in January lost its title as Europe’s most valuable company to luxury goods giant LVMH.
                     05 Feb 2025-10:50AM GMT                   
                     Pound rises to one-month high                    
The pound has risen to its highest level in a month as analysts said tariffs were unlikely to hit Britain’s economy “too hard”.
Sterling was up 0.5pc to $1.254 amid a slowdown more widely in the dollar after Donald Trump’s tariffs triggered a surge in the US currency.
The Bank of England announces its next interest rate decision on Thursday, with traders betting that policymakers will cut the Bank Rate from 4.75pc to 4.5pc.
Nomura strategist Dominic Bunning said US tariffs would be unlikely to impact the UK economy too much, although he acknowledged the pound could be “dragged down by impact on Europe”.
Mr Trump said at the weekend that the EU would “definitely” faces tariffs from the US.
                     05 Feb 2025-10:25AM GMT                   
                     Britain’s largest industry sheds jobs amid ‘geopolitical uncertainty’                   
Britain’s services businesses cut jobs at the fastest pace in four years last month, a closely watched survey showed as bosses said they were worried about the impact of the Budget and global politics.
The dominant sector of the UK economy reported its slowest pace of growth in 15 months, according to the S&P Global UK services PMI survey.
Bosses said the rate of cost inflation was the highest for nine months in January, which in turn pushed up prices for consumers.
Tim Moore, economics director at S&P Global, warned that “stagflation conditions appeared to take a firmer hold” on Britain’s economy as the sector grappled with a downturn in new business.
He said: “Service providers typically cited risk aversion among clients and subsequent cutbacks to investment plans, albeit with resilient spending continuing in areas such as technology services.
“Business activity expectations for the year ahead weakened in response to subdued demand in January, with optimism now the lowest since December 2022.
“A range of growth headwinds at home and abroad were cited by survey respondents, including elevated interest rates, geopolitical uncertainty and a post-Budget slide in domestic business confidence.”
                     05 Feb 2025-10:06AM GMT                   
                     Apple shares fall as China considers investigation                   
Apple shares fell more than 2pc in premarket trading in New York after reports that China is considering launching a competition investigation into the world’s most valuable company.
Beijing is mulling a probe into Apple’s App Store practices, according to Bloomberg.
                     05 Feb 2025-09:51AM GMT                   
                     UK stocks edge lower amid US-China trade war                   
The FTSE 100 inched down as markets mulled the impact of tariffs being imposed by the United States and China.
The UK’s blue-chip index was 0.1pc lower at 8,563.53 while the midcap FTSE 250 fell 0.3pc to 20,596.84.
GSK was the biggest gainer on the FTSE 100, up 5.4pc after announcing a £2bn share buyback.
Diageo was the biggest drag on the index, down 1.5pc after warning on Tuesday that tariffs could deal a $200m (£161m) blow to its finances.
Another weight on the FTSE 100 was HSBC, which has major operations in Hong Kong. It was down 0.3pc.
European markets were also lower, with the Cac 40 in Paris dropping 0.4pc to 7,878.07 and the Dax in Frankfurt down by 0.4pc to 21,419.32.
Stephen Innes, managing partner at SPI Asset Management, said: “Trade tensions haven’t exploded yet, but they’re simmering dangerously close to a full boil, and anyone brushing them off does so at their own risk.”
                     05 Feb 2025-09:27AM GMT                   
                     Europe needs free-trade deal on US gas, says TotalEnergies boss                   
Europe should try to secure a free-trade deal with the US on liquefied natural gas (LNG), the boss of TotalEnergies has said as the threat of tariffs from Donald Trump linger over the Continent.
Patrick Pouyanne said LNG export capacity in the US should practically double in coming years.
He said: “But what happens if all of a sudden the US decides they must export less than they’ve done historically? 
“We must not pass from a so-called over-dependence on Russia to an over-dependence on another country, even if it’s an ally.
“There are two types of countries: those with free trade agreements that the Americans have signed and under which they cannot suspend exports, and then countries without free-trade agreements, like Europe.
“I think it would be good for Europeans to ask the Americans in the negotiations that are to come, for a sort of free-trade guarantee on LNG.”
                     05 Feb 2025-09:16AM GMT                   
                     China considers investigation into Apple as trade war deepens                   
China is said to be considering a competition investigation in Apple as its trade war with the US takes another twist.
The State Administration for Market Regulation is examining the fees charged to app developers by the world’s largest company, according to Bloomberg.
It comes amid long-running disputes between Apple and developers such as Tencent and ByteDance over its App Store policies.
Last week, Apple revealed it   at the same time as Mr Trump was reported to be considering tariffs against Beijing.
The company has been struggling in China the face of intense competition from home-grown rival Huawei.
Apple is heavily reliant on China for its supply chain and manufacturing, despite efforts to move production to India and Vietnam.
Chief executive Tim Cook appeared at a supply chain conference in Beijing in November but has also been courting Mr Trump, donating $1m to his inauguration fund and privately meeting with him at Mar-a-Lago. 
                     05 Feb 2025-08:55AM GMT                   
                     China urges US Postal Service to halt ‘unreasonable suppression’                   
Beijing said the decision by the US Postal Service (USPS) to suspend inbound parcels from China was causing ‘unreasonable suppression of Chinese companies’.
USPS said the halt will take place “until further notice”.
Asked about the suspension at a regular news briefing on Wednesday, China’s foreign ministry said that “as a matter of principle... we urge the United States to stop politicising trade and economic issues and using them as tools, and to stop the unreasonable suppression of Chinese companies”.
Spokesman Lin Jian added that China would “continue to take necessary measures to resolutely safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies”.
The order also eliminated a duty-free exemption for low value packages.
The “de minimis” exemption allows goods valued at $800 or below to come into the United States without paying duties or certain taxes.
But it has faced scrutiny because of a surge in shipments claiming the exemption in recent years.
US officials pointed to the growth of Chinese-founded online retailers Shein and Temu as a key factor behind this increase-and Tuesday’s halt could delay parcels from both companies from entering the country.
Washington has been looking to tighten the rule, saying the growth in shipments makes it harder to screen goods for security risks.
However, the USPS gave no reason for its pause on Tuesday.
                     05 Feb 2025-08:32AM GMT                   
                     ‘Safe haven’ gold hits record high as Trump trade war deepens                   
‘Safe-haven’ gold hits record high as Trump trade war deepens
Gold rose to a new record high as investors sought out the “safe-haven” as Donald Trump’s tariffs created economic uncertainty.
Bullion hit an all-time peak above $2,854 an ounce a day after the additional 10pc tariffs on Chinese goods entering the US came into effect.
The dollar, another place of safety for investors, pulled back slightly overnight after its recent surge, with the pound up 0.2pc to just under $1.25.
Charu Chanana, an analyst at Saxo Capital Markets, said: “Who doesn’t like a safe-haven in this scenario?
“No good news on US-China talks and more geopolitical angst with the Gaza news would continue to provide a further boost to gold, irrespective of where the US dollar goes.”
                     05 Feb 2025-08:26AM GMT                   
                     US Postal Service suspends parcels from China amid Trump tariffs                   
The US Postal Service said it would temporarily suspend parcels from China and Hong Kong in the wake of the trade war between America and China.
President Donald Trump ended a trade provision this week used by retailers including Temu and Shein to ship low-value packages duty-free to the US.
The Trump administration imposed an additional 10pc tariff on Chinese goods that came into effect on Tuesday and moved to close the “de minimis” exemption that allows US shoppers to avoid paying tariffs for shipments below $800.
The extra tariff and the elimination of de minimis follow repeated warnings by Trump that Beijing was not doing enough to halt the flow of fentanyl, a dangerous synthetic opioid, into the US.
Reuters reported previously that Chinese suppliers use the duty-free provision to export chemical materials for fentanyl by disguising them as gadgets and other low-cost goods.
Ram Ben Tzion, founder of Ultra Information Solution, which is behind digital shipment vetting platform Publican, said: “This is huge... People waiting for orders from Amazon, Shein and Temu have no way of knowing when they can receive those orders.
“I do expect this to be a short-term measure replaced by a longer term measure that will be more measured.”
Jim Reid, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said: “We’re starting to see some real economy impacts from the new tariffs as well, as the US Postal Service suspended inbound international packages from China.”
                     05 Feb 2025-08:24AM GMT                   
                     China seeks tariff talks after call between Trump and Xi cancelled                   
China has called for fresh talks with the US after a call between Donald Trump and Xi Jinping was cancelled amid a deepening trade war between the world’s largest economies.
Beijing expressed its “resolute opposition” to US tariffs on its exports and called for “dialogue” to resolve trade differences.
Mr Trump and Xi cancelled a scheduled phone call on Tuesday after China announced retaliatory tariffs on the US. 
The US president said he was in “no rush” to hold talks.
China’s foreign ministry spokesman Lin Jian said China “expresses strong dissatisfaction and resolute opposition” to the US tariffs.
Instead, Mr Lin said China wants “fair and mutually respectful dialogue and consultations”.
China’s Ministry of Commerce announced on Tuesday a 15pc tariff on US coal and liquefied natural gas products, as well as a 10pc tariff on crude oil, agricultural machinery and large-displacement cars. 
The announcement came minutes after an additional 10pc tariffs by the US against Chinese exports to the American economy came into effect.
Mr Lin said: “The measures taken by China are necessary to safeguard its legitimate rights and interests.
“There are no winners in a trade war or a tariff war.”
                     05 Feb 2025-08:20AM GMT                   
                     Good morning                   
Thanks for joining us. China is seeking talks with the US after a call between Donald Trump and Xi Jinping was cancelled as the trade war between the world’s largest economies heated up.
China’s foreign ministry spokesman Lin Jian expressed Beijing’s “resolute opposition” to tariffs and called for “mutually respectful dialogue and consultations”.
Mr Trump said on Tuesday he was in “no rush” to hold talks.
                     5 things to start your day                   
  | Pressure grows on Chancellor to cut spending or raise taxes after ‘cardinal error’ in maiden Budget                                                  | Trump’s tariffs could re-route global exports – and turn the UK into a de facto dumping ground                                                  | Trump’s tariff assault could prove to be one of the worst miscalculations in US history                                                  | Telecoms giant joins major US companies in rolling back DEI initiatives amid return of Trump                                                  | Office for National Statistics struggles with plunging survey response rates                                        
                     What happened overnight                   
Asian markets stumbled and gold hit a new record as investors kept tabs on China and the United States after they exchanged tariffs.
Shanghai, which reopened after a week-long break, and Hong Kong were among the main losers as e-commerce companies took a hit from news that the US Postal Service was suspending inbound parcels from China and Hong Kong.
The tepid performance came despite a positive lead from Wall Street, where there was a sigh of relief that US President Donald Trump had reached a deal to delay 25pc duties on imports from Canada and Mexico.
All eyes were on Washington and Beijing after they renewed their trade spat, though analysts said China’s apparently more measured approach provided some hope that a full-blown crisis could be avoided.
Hong Kong fell more than 1pc, with e-commerce giant JD.com sinking nearly 4pc and rival Alibaba also lower on news of the US Postal Service suspension.
Trump’s tariff announcement against China included the removal of an allowance-used by China’s e-commerce firms-that exempted small packages worth less than $800 from duties. The suspension does not involve letters and flat mail.
Shanghai dropped as it reopened after a week-long break, while Singapore, Wellington, Mumbai, Bangkok and Jakarta also retreated, though Sydney, Seoul, Taipei and Manila rose.
Tokyo reversed earlier losses, though Nissan dived 4.9pc after Japan’s Nikkei business daily said the carmaker had decided to withdraw from merger talks with rival Honda. Shares in Honda surged more than 8pc.
Gold hit a fresh peak of $2,861.93 as investors rushed into the safe-haven metal.
Wall Street rose on Tuesday after tariffs on Mexico and Canada were averted, for now. The S&P 500 rose 0.7pc, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average of 30 leading US companies put on 0.3pc. Meanwhile, the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite surged 1.4pc.
In the bond market, the yield on benchmark 10-year US Treasury notes fell to 4.510pc, from 4.569pc late on Monday.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
