




Newsweek.com
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 8:02 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 677 words
Byline: Khaleda Rahman
Highlight: The department said a pause in federal funding by President Donald Trump's administration will not affect its financial assistance programs.
Body


The Department of Veterans Affairs has said a pause in federal funding by President 's administration will not affect its financial assistance programs.
Newsweek has contacted the department for further comment via email.
Why It Matters
A memo from Matthew J. Vaeth, the acting director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, directing a pause on federal grants and loans  about which programs would be affected.
Trump administration officials said the pause would not affect federal assistance to individuals, such as Social Security, Medicare, food stamps, student loans and scholarships, but they said the pause is necessary to ensure spending complies with Trump's recent executive orders.
However, a federal judge blocked the directive shortly before it was to start on Tuesday. The order placed it on hold until next Monday while legal challenges continue.
What To Know 
In a statement issued at around 7:40 p.m. on Tuesday, the Department of Veterans Affairs said it had "conducted a comprehensive analysis of all its federal financial assistance programs and consulted with OMB."
The statement said that the department has determined that all 44 of its financial assistance programs will "continue uninterrupted and that all VA programs and operations will continue uninterrupted."
What People Are Saying 
Acting Veterans Affairs Secretary Todd Hunter said in a statement the pause "will have no impact on VA health care, benefits or beneficiaries."
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters in her first briefing on Tuesday that it was: "Not a blanket pause on federal assistance and grant programs from the Trump administration. If you are receiving individual assistance from the federal government, you will still continue to receive that. However, it is the responsibility of the president and this administration to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars."
The reason for the pause "is to ensure that every penny that is going out the door is not conflicting with the executive orders and actions that this President has taken," she added. "So what does this pause mean? It means no more funding for . It means no more funding for the green new scam that has cost American taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. It means no more funding for transgenderism and wokeness across our federal bureaucracy and agencies."
Democrats decried the pause and said it was illegal.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer  posted on X on Tuesday: "Lawless, destructive, cruel, mean, nasty and illegal. That's what this order is. It's going to affect almost everybody in every way. The idea that a court said it won't go into effect, we're not going to be fooled. We're not going to rest. We know Trump and his crony vote are going to keep at it and keep at it and keep at it till they slash the heart out of the programs that the government sends to help people throughout America."
Democratic Senator Patty Murray, the vice chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Democratic Representative Rosa DeLauro, the ranking member of the House Appropriations Committee, said in a letter to Vaeth on Monday: "As leaders of the House and  Committees on Appropriations, we write with extreme alarm about the Administration's efforts to undermine 's power of the purse, threaten our national security, and deny resources for states, localities, American families, and businesses."
The letter added: "The scope of what you are ordering is breathtaking, unprecedented, and will have devastating consequences across the country. We write today to urge you in the strongest possible terms to uphold the law and the Constitution and ensure all federal resources are delivered in accordance with the law."
What's Next
U.S. District Judge Loren L. AliKhan's stay, prompted by a lawsuit brought by nonprofits that receive federal money, .
Meanwhile, Democratic attorney generals  over the funding pause.


Graphic

 
Department of Veterans Affairs
iStock
A file photo shows the entrance to the Department of Veteran Affairs building.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
