




TheHill.com
February 21, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Length: 423 words
Byline: Ashleigh Fields
Body


Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Doug Collins defended the Trump administration’s  at the department, arguing Thursday that cuts have not been made to “critical health care” or other benefits.
“We’re not cutting critical health care. We’re not cutting health care benefits. We’re not cutting benefits,” Collins  on NewsNation’s “The Hill.”
“In fact, we’re actually making it faster in our VBA [Veterans Benefit Act], our benefit side, to get your answer quicker. We’ve already instituted — we’ve had some record decisions weeks where we’re actually posting more and more benefits to claimed and conclusion than we ever have,” he added.
The former Georgia lawmaker’s response comes after a slew of  from President Trump raised concerns that , veterans and their families could be impacted.
The secretary also denied claims the VA was cutting a crisis response line after 1,000 probationary workers and approximately 60 diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) staffers , as ordered by Trump’s  (OPM).
“That is just wrong,” Collins told “The Hill” host Blake Burman. “We did not cut any veteran crisis line responders who actually pick up the phone and talk to those who need to talk to a veteran crisis line.”
“They’re trying to use that with some other things that were going on in the back offices that did not happen,” he continued. “So just for your listeners and you’re watching tonight, trust me when I tell you, we’re doing everything for the veterans, so we’re making sure we do it efficiently.”
Despite the comments, veterans have been among those  as part of spending cut initiatives spearheaded by Trump’s Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE).
Democratic lawmakers have fought many of the changes, citing a crippling impact for American workers and former soldiers.
“It’s a middle finger to our heroes and the law and their lives of service,” Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), a veteran, told reporters during a Wednesday press call.  
The Illinois Democrat said she spoke with two crisis line workers who were fired. Officials have called on leaders for more clarity in regard to moves that restructure the federal workforce. 
Sen. Angus King (I-Maine), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, also weighed in.
“There is an almost total lack of transparency and communication here,” he said Thursday.


Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
