




Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 7:00 PM EST
January 27, 2025 Monday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS
Length: 6745 words
Byline: Martha MacCallum, Tomi Lahren, Madison Alworth, Alexis McAdams, Peter Doocy
Guests: Tim Ryan, Generald Wilson, Tammy Bruce, Jonathan Pullen
Body


MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR: All right guys, thank you. The fire hose continues.
Hi everybody, I'm Martha MacCallum on this Monday. This is THE STORY. Let's go to Doral, Florida, because that is where the action is right now on this Monday afternoon, as President Trump is about to meet with House Republicans. We're expecting remarks any moment.
We will bring those to you live as they carve the path forward for the president's very, very busy agenda. A lot of foreign policy issues coming to the front as we are now one week from the inauguration. Hard to believe that it was just seven days ago.
But the focus, while everybody was watching the championship games yesterday, the president was working hard on this back and forth with Colombia. As the country backed down from a battle over deportation flights, President Trump had threatened 25 percent tariffs because they dropped off two military planes in Colombia and they were rejected.
All of this went back and forth after that rejection. President Columbia accused the United States of not treating the migrants with dignity. Now, he is, he offered his own plane and acceded to all of the demands from the Trump administration, and before that Secretary of State Marco Rubio posted, "America will not back down when it comes to defending our national security interests."
So here now in her first interview as State Department spokesperson is someone very familiar to us and to all of you Tammy Bruce former Fox News Contributor. Tammy it's great to see you. Congratulations on your new position.
TAMMY BRUCE, STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON: Thank you. Thank you very much. Great to see you.
MACCALLUM: So, what was it like there yesterday? As I said everybody was glued to the football games, but I kept getting all these alerts about what was happening with regard to Columbia. What was your Sunday like?
BRUCE: You know, it was an exciting and very different kind of weekend, but what it felt like is what I think the American people expect, which is a very active president. We know President Trump is an active man, a Secretary of State in Marco Rubio, who, as he has said, and as we've gotten to know him, it cares about the details of what is going on, the messages that are sent, not just by the United States, but also in general in the world.
I think that this was an opportunity, unlike perhaps the last few years, that various countries, including Colombia, found out that there will be repercussions if you take America for granted, if you were nigg on a deal. That was, by the way, Martha, a signed agreement. This was not a surprise to anyone. They were expecting it.
And it was so it was a very unfortunate situation, but I think now in the end with this agreement as you've noted that nothing changed effectively; America can still land its planes, and, and do everything else. And if they want to in Columbia use their own planes to repatriate some of their citizens, this is just about Colombian citizens then they can do that, but in the end this was unnecessary.
And of course, they found out that this is now a nation under the Trump administration and through Secretary Rubio, that we take our agreements seriously and that America is not going to be taken advantage of and that there will be repercussions if you behave in that manner toward this country.
MACCALLUM: I asked Tom Homan a couple times. It's hard for me to understand how if someone comes to the country illegally, that there are countries where we can't send them back. I mean, it doesn't seem to make sense. And I remember saying to him, why don't you just land the plane there and let them worry about it? And so, it was very interesting to watch that playing out in real time. But it seemed like the Colombian president was a lot of bluster and a lot of pushback, a nasty letter that he wrote.
This is Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's take on the whole thing. Let's take a look at this. She posted, "To punish Columbia, Trump is about to make every American pay even more for coffee. Remember, we pay the tariffs, not Columbia." And she went on to talk more about inflation. What's your response to that, Tammy?
BRUCE: You know, I think that what people recognize about President Trump and the messaging that has to happen, this was about reminding Columbia that there is a price to pay if you go against your agreements, things that you promised, that America has an interest. And look, every country has its own self-interest, but our nation again now under this administration, will be acting on that, and it was a reminder to Colombia and the president there that there will be a price to pay.
And ultimately what one would expect to happen did happen. They said, oh, our bad. They reversed everything. So, I think that the leverage is important.
MACCALLUM: No doubt that's a message to other countries as well.
BRUCE: Well, it's leverage. It's a reminder.
MACCALLUM: Yes, take these flights back. I think they're probably going to all end up taking them.
BRUCE: Sure.
MACCALLUM: The Wall Street Journal today, this is Sunday rather, excuse me, a piece that they ran says that the president, and this is about Mexico and Canada, and whether or not they will be slapped with tariffs first and then have talks. And they report the President has tangled with both countries before and doesn't feel that Canada and Mexico are taking his threat seriously, according to some advisors. He wants to hit them with tariffs first and prove that he is not baffling. What's your response to that from the State Department?
BRUCE: Well, you know, I think even when you talk about close neighbors; this is where we live, right? The Americas. That we've gotten out of the last four years mixed messages or no message at all about the interests of the United States. And it's, I think, reasonable when it comes to tariffs and doing things that will make America, of course, safer, more prosperous, secure and stable.
That is what drives all State Department business and decisions. It is Marco Rubio's commitment to make sure that everything we do is in America's interest, which is in the interest of Canada and Mexico and every other nation, frankly, on the planet.
MACCALLUM: Well, it's also getting out there that they're going to read that Secretary of State Rubio will re-evaluate every bit of the billions of dollars of aid that goes to other countries, whether it's humanitarian or military, before they start paying those bills again, right, Tammy? Quickly, if you can.
BRUCE: Well, yes. I mean, this is about reassessing, looking at what it is we've been doing, and if all of it is in our best interest, and then what makes that better for the nations around the world.
So, it's about taking a note of what we've been doing, and whether or not things need to change and how to best proceed to the future for us in a serious manner recognizing the importance of relationships between America, the United States, and every other country in the world.
We will not be taken advantage of. We are serious about the assistance that matters to the world. We care about the nature of what we do, but it's going to be serious and it's going to be effective and it's going to be sharp.
MACCALLUM: Well, a lot of places are just used to getting the checks and so now they're going to have to prove that it's worthy and that it's in our best interest as well. Tammy, great to see you.
BRUCE: Thank you.
MACCALLUM: It's wonderful to see so many of our colleagues in new positions of great importance. So, thank you very much. Great to see you. We'll see you soon.
BRUCE: Thanks, Martha. My pleasure.
MACCALLUM: Tammy Bruce at the State Department. So, the special agent in charge of the DEA's Rocky Mountain Field Division, who helped lead the takedown of illegal immigrants in Colorado overnight, they seized drugs and weapons and cash from suspected members of the violent Venezuelan gang, Tren de Aragua.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SUNNY HOSTIN, "THE VIEW" CO-HOST: So, I think there's a very clear message as to what this president wants the look of a criminal migrant to look like, what an undocumented migrant. And I think that's racist.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: Pretty incredible images over the weekend as we see nonstop action on immigration crackdowns across the country, a flood of ICE raids leading to more than 1,000 arrests, and more than 500 ICE detainers. These are added to the list that we saw over the course of last week.
Moments from now, I'll speak with DEA agent in Colorado who was involved in this early morning raid on what they said was a makeshift nightclub party that they pulled people out of and that there were many members in there of the violent Venezuelan gang, Tren de Aragua. But first let's go to our correspondent Alexis Adams here in New York with the latest. Hi Alexis.
ALEXIS MCADAMS: Hi, Martha. Well, this is what Trump said on day one when he was campaigning, was going to go after what they said is the worst first on the streets, arresting migrants who they say committed a wide range of crimes like drug trafficking, gun charges, and child sex crimes. And those raids are far from over.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: I think the president's happy, but we're going to make him a lot happier. Yesterday was just day one. And these raids are going to go out throughout the country. We're not going to let up. We're going to put our foot on the gas and we're going to go.
MCADAMS: This weekend, ice raids from Chicago to Miami, arrests in Philly, and soon, ice says, crackdowns right here in New York City. Texas had teams on the ground finding three rifles, two pistols, and more than 3,000 rounds of ammo. Sources telling me that a member of the Sinaloa drug cartel out of Mexico was carrying those weapons when he was arrested in El Paso, Texas.
Just the other day, ICE agents also found a large bag of cocaine with more than 120 kilos of that drug packed right inside this bag. Investigators say a group of migrants were planning to traffic that right into our country. And out in Colorado, federal agents from the DEA raiding a party in the Denver area. This was part of an ongoing investigation into that Venezuelan gang, Tren de Aragua.
The team says 50 migrants were arrested. ICE ran dozens of background checks and they put them on this bus and took them away. This continues here as the DEA Rocky Mountain team says, they busted this party so quickly, Martha, they still had some of those cervezas still left on camera and still left on ICE.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: I saw that. Thank you very much, Alexis. So, with that, we bring in Jonathan Pullen, who was at the helm of that Denver area raid. He is a special agent in charge of the DEA's Rocky Mountain Field Division, and he has led investigations targeting terrorism and drug trafficking.
Thank you very much, Special Agent Pullen. It's good to have you with us. Give us a sense of how you tracked this makeshift party location down, what was happening in there, and who was apprehended agent?
JONATHAN PULLEN, DEA'S ROCKY MOUNTAIN FIELD DIVISION: Yes, thank you, Martha, for having us. So, we've been following TDA here at Denver for a number of months. When I first arrived here in Colorado seven months ago as a news special agent in charge, saying the words TDA around the city of Denver was like saying a four-letter word in church. No one wanted to talk about it.
But then, my agents finally and quickly realized that we had a TDA trafficker who moved around 12 kilos of fentanyl across the mountains coming into the city. So, that really started us looking at these traffickers, and what they were doing, and who they are associated with.
And then, so, for the next several months, we've been able to identify more and more of them, link them to other states, link them to numerous other countries, follow them between these sort of makeshift nightclubs, and that's what you see in the images on the screen now. The culmination was a federal search warrant executed at one of those makeshift nightclubs, where we found about 50 people inside on early Sunday morning,
MACCALLUM: Were there drugs and weapons in there?
PULLEN: Absolutely. So, these are dangerous criminals. You've seen from those videos that came out of Aurora a few months ago. These guys are carrying pistols and AK-47. These are serious bad guys.
So, we showed up in force. There were pistols found inside several of them. We found cocaine, we found crack cocaine, we also found a drug called Tusi, also known as pink cocaine.
MACCALLUM: So, you've been on the job for seven months. What's different now under this leadership than it was even a couple of months ago?
PULLEN: So, this has been an ongoing investigation for DEA. But I can tell you what's different now, I think, is that there is a renewed focus on the most violent criminals and our -- in our cities and across the nation. And I think that's an important thing.
You know, I'm a citizen of the Denver area too, and I want to wake up to a safer city. And I think that's what happened here. We took, you know, over 40 people into custody. A lot of these people have criminal records, and so, I think, the people in the city of Denver woke up today to a safer city.
MACCALLUM: So, you know, Mayor Johnston had been very outspoken -- the mayor of Denver, about what would happen if there were raids, and that the people of his city would protect immigrants who were living in the city from any kind of raids against them, and yet, now, he is saying, you know, what happened here on camera that we're showing you, he just gave us a statement. Didn't happen in Denver, but if it had, he would have been supportive.
Do you see a change in the way that leadership in Denver and in Colorado is talking about all of this now?
PULLEN: Yes, I think so. I think some of the politicians are walking some of those statements back. I mean, look, we're here to protect public safety, right? I mean, on this raid, we had DEA out there, as you can see, we had ATF, we had Homeland Security, we had ICE agents, as well as some local partners with us as well, you know, too.
So, everyone wants a safer neighborhood to live in. So, you know, people can say what they want about, you know, cooperating or not cooperating with ICE, but listen, DEA is conducting drug investigations all across the United States. Sometimes does include illegal immigrants, and so, we're going to use all the resources that DEA's -- the DEA has to remove these people from the country if they need to be.
MACCALLUM: What do you think -- I mean, we saw Trend de Aragua in many cases, you know, roaming freely. They've been tracked in 18 states. I think we have a map, if we didn't show it already, of all the states that this group is in.
So, once you -- they start seeing raids and crackdowns and arrests like they saw -- we saw last night in your area. What do you think the impact is going to be on their aggressiveness in the U.S.?
PULLEN: Well, I think they are going to probably start to scatter a little bit. I mean, I think that's what we're going to see here. We certainly didn't arrest all of them in Colorado yesterday, but we took quite a few off the streets.
But typically, when these type of things happen, they move to other locations -- so, we're going to see them scatter. But I think what people need to know is that, you know, gangs like this are a real threat to our public safety, and so, we're getting, you know, cartels, like the Sinaloa and CJNG Cartel, they all sort of cooperate and work together, and these are violent people that we're going to really continue to work hard to get off the streets.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Before I let you go, I'm just curious, when I look at this video. Some of the people arrested are women that I see handcuffed. Where - - are they members of Tren de Aragua as well that you arrested last night?
PULLEN: So, you know, it's a -- it's a very diverse group. I'm looking at a list here, Martha. And we had folks, most of them were from Venezuela. But we had El Salvador, Mexico, Honduras, Cuba, Romania, let's see -- and Italy. So, you know, these people are all connected to this gang or one way or the other, because it was an invitation only party, but they're all associated.
MACCALLUM: Yes. Not necessarily a party motive. Most of us want to be invited too. And you guys were not invited, but thank you for showing up anyway.
PULLEN: Absolutely.
MACCALLUM: Special Agent Jonathan Pullen, always good to see you. Thank you so much, and thank you for the work you do. You put yourselves on the line out there, and we really appreciate what you're doing to make not only Colorado, but the country safer. Thank you very much, sir.
PULLEN: Thank you, Martha. Thanks.
MACCALLUM: So, President Trump taking action to restore warrior ethos to the Pentagon under brand new defense secretary Pete Hegseth's watch.
PETE HEGSETH, UNITED STATES DEFENSE SECRETARY: We don't want to fight wars. We want to deter them, as you said, and we want to end them responsibly. But if we need to fight them, we're going to bring overwhelming and decisive force to close with and destroy the enemy and bring our boys home.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: So, that was on Saturday, Republican Senator Tom Cotton, who long warned about the military going woke and the problem that, that presented to our readiness joins me next.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. TOM COTTON (R-AR): You're saying, as the senior leader of the Navy, that you want 18-year-old sailors and 22-year-old ensigns to read a book that asserts that capitalism is essentially racist. Do you -- do you agree that capitalism is essentially racist?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: All right. So, as we know, President Trump intends to make the Pentagon hyper focused on America's ability to fight on the battlefield with the new defense secretary, Peter Hegseth, in charge, of course.
Senator Tom Cotton, an Iraq and Afghanistan veteran has grilled military leaders about the detrimental nature of going woke in terms of the readiness of the United States military. We'll speak with him in just a moment.
But first, senior first senior White House correspondent Peter Doocy. Hi, Peter.
PETER DOOCY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Martha, good afternoon. President Trump does not think that transgender people are mentally or physically stable enough to serve in the U.S. armed forces. And this executive order, first reported by the New York Post today, that is going to be signed any minute, makes the case that transition surgeries require recovery and narcotics that could affect somebody's readiness for up to a year.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HEGSETH: There are more executive orders coming that we fully support, on removing DEI inside the Pentagon, reinstating troops who are pushed out because of COVID mandates. Iron Dome for America. This is happening quickly. And as the secretary of defense, it's an honor to salute smartly.
DOOCY (voice over): The very first thing Secretary Hegseth posted to social media after photos of his actual swearing in was this photo, and it had the caption, "DOD does not equal DEI: No exceptions, name changes or delays. Those who do not comply will no longer work here." And that's an attempt to stop managers at federal agencies from reassigning DEI specialists to other offices within the government. And it's all stuff Donald Trump said he would do.
He is -- he is sort of made these promises, is keeping those promises, and the American people, I think, broadly support this. And so, I think the Democrats would be wise to be a little bit more cooperative.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
DOOCY (on camera): the new defense secretary, Pete Hegseth, mentioned there is something about the American Iron Dome. We expect that to be part of one of President Trump's executive orders today or tomorrow. It comes as adversaries experiment with hypersonic technology, and as President Trump is promising to let us all know what was going on with those drones over New Jersey. Martha.
MACCALLUM: Go ahead, I've been asking about that for quite a while. Peter, thank you very much. We're going to talk to Senator Cotton just a second, but House Speaker Mike Johnson is speaking right now. Let's see what he's talking about.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): -- far-left policy. So, we talked about conditioning the aid that will go there to policy changes. I think that is a common-sense notion that is supported by the vast majority of American people, who do not want to subsidize crazy California leftist policies that are dangerous for people.
And now, what the terms are and the details of that we will be working out, but entwined in all of that, is the concern about election security in California, and voter I.D. is a -- is a matter that, again, comports with common sense that most American people see the value in. And we -- it'll be something we'll be trying to advance. You over here. Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you see President Trump negotiated with Maduro, or Maduro does not have the opportunity to negotiate, or rather accept the terms in regard of the migrants. And the second question is whether this conversation with (INAUDIBLE) means that the president of the Salvador is going to receive members of Tren de Aragua today, expelled from the United States in his prisons?
JOHNSON: Yes. Look, I'm not sure. I'm not going to get ahead of the president with regarding negotiations with Venezuela or El Salvador, or any other country. I would just say that we will be dealing with this in the same manner that we did with Colombia, and that is every nation around the world that, you know, Venezuela is a good example. I mean, the president --
President Trump, noted that they opened their prisons and sent very dangerous persons to the U.S. That is not acceptable. We should never have allowed it here. The Biden administration and Mayorkas opened the border wide and subjected the American people to all these terrible -- it's a humanitarian catastrophe and a violence problem, a violent crisis for the American people, and it must be addressed.
And so, President Trump will, you seen, he will have a heavy hand, and we will support him on that, regardless of who stands up against it.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Speaker --
JOHNSON: Yes, go ahead. Yes.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, Mr. Speaker. It's been a busy week as (INAUDIBLE) before President Trump. We seen (INAUDIBLE) inspector general today. I also need my comments and an Executive Order about FEMA, saying that perhaps it shouldn't even exist. Can you comment on the idea that states should be more? And do you think students (PH) and inspectors general? Is that a legal action and is it a good one?
JOHNSON: So, I have some expertise with FEMA. I'm from Louisiana. We're a disaster-prone state, as is Florida, and we have a lot of experience with that. In my experience, it is very often the case that local workers, people that who are, you know, working through FEMA, do a pretty good job, but often it's the leadership at the top that can affect the outcome of how a disaster is handled.
There is been a lot of frustration, of course, over the last four years with how FEMA has been handled, and I think the president is right to assess that.
I think we are entering a new era of government, and that is when the president says he wants to make the government more efficient and effective, and we say we want to limit the size and scope of government. It means that everything is on the table for reevaluation. This is a new moment for us to reevaluate everything that the federal government does, and FEMA is in the crosshairs -- pardon the expression, because they're the microscope, because these disasters are front and center for the country to review.
And so, I think that the task force that the president set up -- set up by the executive order, is an appropriate step. I think that is probably long overdue. There is -- it will be a six-month, 180-day evaluation with some very smart people in the room that have a lot of expertise and experience in dealing with FEMA. And I very much look forward to the outcome of that - - of that issue.
I will tell you, from my perspective, State of Louisiana, again, having a lot of experience with this. We have the Governor's Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness, we call it GOHSEP. And they do an extraordinary job on a state level. They're very responsive to the people, and our people are very resilient and they look to the state officials to handle that. FEMA has been a partner, but they probably could be a better partner.
So we're going to withhold the final judgment on what the analysis is from that group. But I think the timing for that is important, and we support the president's initiative, obviously, 100 percent. And we'll assist from the House, House Republicans, in any way that we can to contribute to that effort.
With regard to the inspectors general, the president will, my understanding is, he will be replacing those positions with new persons. And sometimes you need a fresh look. Look, we want to eliminate fraud, waste and abuse in every way possible. The President's committed to that and we are as well. The inspector generals, when they are working on all cylinders and to their top level of effectiveness, they can be a huge part of that.
I think the President appreciates that. But sometimes you have to have, you know, begin a new page and start with a fresh start. And I think maybe some new eyes, new voices will be appropriate at this time. Scott? Scott?
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MARTHA MACCALLUM, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: OK. I mean, what we are watching here in real time is President Trump going forward with his promises to make all of the agencies of the government more accountable and more efficient. So Mike Johnson answering questions here from Doral, from the House Republicans meeting with President Trump basically saying, yes, FEMA is on the line to be accountable for how they spend their money.
You heard President Trump the other day saying that in many cases, FEMA, when they're on the ground in these emergencies, are at odds with parts of FEMA, very unconstructive. Also with regard to the dismissal of inspector generals, not unprecedented at all for a new president to come in and clear the decks, and start to replace people with those who are on board with this really DOGE driven efficiency process that we're seeing.
And as we talked about at State Department as well, looking at aid that goes billions and billions of dollars of aid that goes to other countries, is it efficient, is it well spent, is it America first supportive. So that is what we're watching unfold here in this agenda.
Now in the meantime, Vice President JD Vance insisting that Trump has accomplished more in a matter of days than Joe Biden did in four years. A hot debate With Tomi Lahren next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: Vice President JD Vance fulfilling a campaign pledge in Virginia today, taking his first trip to Virginia to tour the areas decimated by Hurricane Helene. Vance was pressed by CBS on Sunday about prices and inflation, and why they are not yet lower for consumers. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MARGARET BRENNAN, MODERATOR, "FACE THE NATION": We've seen all of these executive orders. Which one lowers prices?
JD VANCE, US VICE PRESIDENT: We have done a lot and there have been a number of executive orders that have caused already jobs to start coming back into our country, which is a core part of lowering prices.
BRENNAN: You were talking about bacon on the campaign trail --
VANCE: Of course, of course.
BRENNAN: -- those things. When do consumers actually get touch and feel a difference in their lives?
VANCE: Margaret, how does bacon get to the grocery store? It comes on trucks that are fueled by diesel fuel. If the diesel is way too expensive, the bacon is going to become more expensive.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: OK. Let's bring in Tomi Lahren, OutKick host and FOX News contributor. She's also the host of a new FOX Nation Series, "100 days with Tomi Lahren" and Tim Ryan, former Ohio Democratic congressman. Great to have both of you with us today.
So let me ask you first, Tim, how do you think that Vice President Vance did answering that question?
TIM RYAN, FORMER OHIO DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN: Well, it's so early to say like an executive order is going to have an impact --
MACCALLUM: Right.
RYAN: -- within a week or however long it's been. I mean, I think that's kind of a ridiculous question. But I think that is going to be the broader question that the President and the vice president, and this administration is going to have to ask, are you going to quickly be able to get prices under control, get inflation under control, because that's why they won, basically.
And they had a very simple solution. Biden was terrible. Democrats screwed it up. Now they're in and it's very complicated situation.
So it's going to determine the success or failure, I think, of the administration, at least in the short term. They're moving on an end of a cyclical the stock market was doing great. Jobs are doing great. Everything was doing great.
They may catch the tail end of that, and then they may be in a recessionary mode. So it's going to be interesting to see how they handle that.
MACCALLUM: Tomi, what's your take on that?
TOMI LAHREN, FOX NEWS CONTRIBUTOR: Well, as Vice President JD Vance alluded to, unleashing American energy independence is going to go a long way in reducing some of these prices because everything really is dependent on energy. And if we make more of it here and even export it to the rest of the world, that's going to be a huge feather in our cap. So we need to increase that.
But I would also say in terms of food prices, let's also unleash our American farmers and ranchers. Let's give them a level playing field so that they can compete with some of the foreign meat and some of the foreign products that are coming in.
You know, a lot of folks don't know that we don't have country of origin labeling on our meat products. That would go a long way to unleashing American farmers and ranchers, allowing them to sell their product and allow them to differentiate their product from the imported stuff that we're currently getting. So this is one of the things I'm hoping to see from an administration that puts America and Americans first.
MACCALLUM: All right. One more quick topic here. The actress Selena Gomez going for, I guess, another Academy Award or Golden Globe nomination here, sobbing on Instagram earlier today about what she says she's seeing out there. And she talks about children getting attacked. Watch this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SELENA GOMEZ, ACTRESS/SINGER: I just want to say that I feel sorry for all my people are getting attacked. The children, they don't understand. I'm sorry. I wish I could do something, but I can't. I don't know what to do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
MACCALLUM: She took that off Instagram, Tim. But she said, apparently it's not OK to show empathy for people. And we've seen some of this backlash from other folks and on "The View" as well. But then we hear, you know, governors in Massachusetts and in Colorado saying, well, you know, so far, we're OK with the people that you've kicked out of the country. Thank you very much.
RYAN: Well, let's remember Obama, Bill Clinton, a lot of Democrats took this very seriously. You have to know who's in your country. And you need to do that in a compassionate way.
I don't think we should be ripping parents from their kids. I think we should keep people outside of the border and process them. And you have to get in line. You have to abide by the rules.
MACCALLUM: You don't have any problems with what you're seeing so far, is that accurate?
RYAN: And we should be able to do it in a compassionate way. I'm sorry?
MACCALLUM: You don't have any problem with what you've seen so far?
RYAN: I've not seen anything so far. But I'm not, you know, I'm out office, so I'm not paying attention like I used to. But I haven't --
MACCALLUM: Yes. We're seeing all kinds of videos. Tomi, you know your reaction to celebrities speaking out and crying like we saw last time around, really?
LAHREN: Yes. This is why you shouldn't get all of your news and information from TikTok. Selena Gomez, just a word to the wise there. But you know what, Martha, I never saw her crying for Laken Riley or Rachel Morin or Jocelyn Nungaray. So I would hope that she would consider the lives of those Americans that were lost to illegal immigration. Next time she makes a theatrical crying video and post it on social media.
MACCALLUM: Yes. It's a good warning about getting your news from TikTok. Thank you both. Tim Ryan, Tomi Lahren, good to have you here. Thank you.
RYAN: Thank you.
MACCALLUM: So here's a different kind of crying that was quite moving over the weekend, a stirring performance of the national anthem, evoking some tears from some of these big players who were all ready to play in the Super Bowl. Obviously, very emotional moment last night when we watched the game between the Chiefs and the Bills.
(SINGING)
MACCALLUM: So now calling on retired Navy Petty Officer First Class Generald Wilson to be America's permanent anthem singer. I can get behind that. You're going to meet him coming up next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(SINGING)
MACCALLUM: Wow, amazing. Retired US Navy Petty Officer First Class Generald Wilson bringing spectators to tears and players to tears with that powerful performance of our national anthem last night at the AFC Championship game in Kansas City. A lot of people calling it the best ever. One fan posting, "Holy America."
We are honored to have him with us now, retired Petty Officer First Class Navy Generald Wilson with us with more than two decades of service, including tours of Vietnam and the Persian Gulf. Thank you for your service that continues with that performance last night. It is great to have you with us.
What was it like out there last night?
GENERALD WILSON, NAVY PETTY OFFICER FIRST CLASS: It was exciting, exciting. First, I want to make sure to tell you it's an honor to be here talking to you face to face. So that's amazing.
Secondly, I didn't serve in Vietnam. I just want to put that out there. I don't want to get in trouble, but it is out there for some reason. I don't know how that got out there.
MACCALLUM: OK.
WILSON: But I didn't serve in Virginia, but it was exciting as always. The Kansas City Chiefs are an amazing organization that I've been with for so long along with other organizations. But the Kansas City Chiefs, of course, is my hometown team, so I get excited every time I get that call.
The atmosphere is top notch. It's amazing. The fans are radical as you can tell. So it was a blessing being in that atmosphere.
MACCALLUM: Well, it's the heart of America, to be sure, and you just felt it. I think there's nothing like a flyover with layered -- with the amazing rendition of the national anthem that you gave us. It was absolutely incredible.
Lots of feedback on social media. Pat McAfee, oh, buddy, he just absolutely slaughtered the national anthem. He said, thank you for your service. Ben Watson, my man, sang that anthem, wow. In the cold too, that is not easy.
You know, when you see these guys, you know, some of these big offensive linemen and the quarterbacks, and they're always swaying back and forth as the anthem is played, I think that they're moved. And I think that they have so much energy that they can barely stand still at that point. What do you think about their reactions?
WILSON: Well, it's definitely cold, so you got to move around. That's one thing. Yes. Secondly, when I see the replays, of course, while I'm singing, I don't see that. I do see Coach Andy Reid, because we're like, face to face. I salute him every time before I start. That's our little thing that we do.
I just look at it on the replay. It just feels like they really are in the moment as they reflect over America, how much they love America, you know, how much they love our country. And then, maybe what's going on in the world, they may reflect over that. I don't know.
But it just shows a sense of patriotism and shows how much they love not only our country, but the men and women who serve our country, not just in the military, but also firefighters, police officers in that actual job field. It's amazing.
MACCALLUM: That's what it feels like. It feels like an amazing American moment, and you punctuated it so perfectly, and moved all of us with that rendition, Generald. And I want to thank you. My favorite ever used to be Whitney Houston at the national anthem, but you gave her a run for her money. And you are the person that a lot of people want to be the official singer of our anthem.
So, Generald, thank you so much. Can you sing us out to this break? Just a couple of bars before we go.
WILSON: OK. How about I pray? Can I pray?
MACCALLUM: Yes.
Wilson: God Bless America is a prayer song.
(SINGING)
MACCALLUM: Thank you. Thank you, Generald Wilson. That is a first, and it is a prayer. And we thank you for praying with us and singing with us today, sir.
You're the best. Thank you so much. We'll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
MACCALLUM: So it's a rocky day for the Dow, fueled by a new AI platform from a Chinese startup called DeepSeek reportedly built in less than two months for around $6 million. The app already rivals billion dollar US models like ChatGPT, raising doubts about America's edge over China in the absolutely essential race for our country to dominate in AI.
So it's a big wake up call, nothing final here in this race. FOX Business correspondent Madison Alworth with me now. Hi, Madison.
MADISON ALWORTH, FOX BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Martha. So DeepSeek is the brainchild of a small group of researchers working for a Chinese hedge fund manager. They've been able to produce technology that is on par with OpenAI ChatGPT and Google, even though those companies are sinking billions of dollars and years into development. DeepSeek did it for cheaper in a matter of months with fewer chips.
But there are already concerns around DeepSeek. The Chinese based application will not answer any questions related to the CCP. We asked DeepSeek about the Tiananmen Square protests and got this response that says, "sorry, that's beyond my current scope." We also asked Deep Seat to tell us about the Uyghurs, a Muslim ethnic group that China has been accused of committing genocide against. At first there was a response that was several pages long with acknowledgment that it's a contentious topic. But then once it was done with its response, it actually disappeared and we got the same reply again.
So there is this national security concern and it looks really bad. But here's the thing. And you touched on this. Professionals within the industry aren't too worried about security because DeepSeek is open source, meaning you can take the code and actually run it on your own computer if you have the power. So it's not being sent back to China and the CCP.
They are way more concerned about what this means for American dominance in artificial intelligence because the gap has really been narrowed. Sam Altman of OpenAI has warned that if China wins the air race, it could destroy us. DeepSeek is doing this with less money, power and chips. They said that training one of their latest models cost $5.6 million, compare that to the $100 million that Anthropic cited last year.
DeepSeek claims to have used just 2,000 Nvidia chips to train its latest model, compare that to the tens of thousands of chips used for US models. But there are questions around whether China is underreporting how much money and how much computing power they are using. It's a skepticism that Elon Musk also shares.
Artificial intelligence adviser to the President, David Sacks, he says that DeepSeek R1 shows that the AI race will be very competitive and that President Trump was right to rescind Biden's EO, but that the US cannot be complacent. This is a race that is very much heating up.
MACCALLUM: Sit up and take notice, this is a battle that is so central to the future. And everybody is, you know, we all have to dial in and get it. Madison, thank you so much. Great to see you.
And thank you at home for joining us on this Monday, January 27th, big week. Lots of hearings on the Senate floor for some of the big Cabinet appointees, so we'll see you back here tomorrow at 3:00. Stay tuned, the Will Cain show starts right now.

Load-Date: January 27, 2025


End of Document
