




The Daily Caller
February 8, 2025 Saturday 12:32 AM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; media
Length: 706 words
Byline: Hailey Gomez, General Assignment Reporter, 
Body



Hoover Institution Senior Fellow Victor Davis Hanson told SiriusXM's Megyn Kelly on Friday that Democrats remain on the “wrong side” of every issue and, despite their attacks on President Donald Trump, there is no one left to “sabotage” him.
Since Trump's November victory, Democrats have  to unify around a clear message to voters ahead of the midterm elections. On “The Megyn Kelly Show,” Hanson criticized his home state of California for its preparations for the Olympics, adding that Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom “bent the knee” for Trump's federal money when meeting over the disastrous fires, despite the state lawmakers  millions in a lawsuit against Trump and for immigrant aid.
“Here in California, we've got about a $100 billion bill minimum to get Los Angeles ready for the Olympics, and they're going to need a massive infusion of federal money. You can see Gavin Newsom, he bent the knee almost immediately when he saw Trump. They understand that Trump doesn't have to make a big deal of it,” Hanson said.  “He just has to say, 'If I'm going to give you this federal money, I'm going to send Rick Grinnell out, and he's going to watch over it,'” Hanson said.
“He's got public support. There's such a backlash right now about the DEI and what happened in Los Angeles,” Hanson added. “I don't want to prejudge what happened at Reagan Airport, but there's enough information to suggest that there was non-meritocratic hiring in the FAA. They're on the wrong side of every one of these issues. Now people are starting to get really angry about it.”
During her campaign against Trump in 2024, Vice President Kamala Harris was warned by  about her lack of  with voters, with polls consistently showing that the top concerns for voters were the economy, immigration, and inflation. Despite these worries, Harris struggled to  her economic plans should she win and instead appeared to highlight policies like  based on race. 
WATCH:
Hanson went on to say that Democrats had once been “very confident” in attacking Trump, noting that they believed “they could infiltrate the administrative state.” However, he added, they are no longer able to do so.
“Trump got wise, and he said, 'You know what? I'm not going to have any of them. I'm going to have people that are more MAGA than I am, and I'm going to turn them loose.' They can't handle that,” Hanson said. “They're looking for some interior person. Maybe the secretary of State, maybe the secretary of Defense can sabotage it like we used to do. But there's no one there.”
“So they don't have any power now. I've never seen such asymmetry. They're just getting angrier, because they're used to being coddled. They're losing the media now. They don't know what to do with your podcast, Joe Rogan's,” Hanson said. “They have no idea how to compete with that. They're losing lawsuits for the first time, big lawsuits. It's like that whole revolution is now meeting a counter revolution, cultural, social, economic, political.”
 show that the majority of Americans agree on issues such as not allowing biological males in women's sports and supporting a federal ban on sex-change procedures, including puberty blockers and gender reassignment surgeries for minors - issues that Democrats have .
In an attempt to unite on Feb. 2, Democratic National Committee (DNC) members  to finalize their selection of the new DNC chair, choosing Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party Chairman Ken Martin. After his win, Martin told The New York Times that the party's main problem isn't the policies themselves but rather a “messaging” and “brand problem.”
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter's byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact .

Graphic

 
Victor Davis Hanson on "The Megyn Kelly Show" discussing democrats [Screenshot/YouTube/"The Megyn Kelly Show"]

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
