




States News Service
February 6, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 877 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the office of Massachusetts Rep. Ayanna Pressley:
"It's just a deliberate, calculated attempt to erase marginalized communities from government while eliminating essential services for workers, families, and the people that we are actually elected to protect."
"You are making people poorer, you are making people hungrier, more vulnerable and gutting their civil rights."
WASHINGTON Today, in a House Oversight Committee hearing, Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley (MA-07), delivered a powerful rebuke of Republicans' efforts to gut diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives and eliminate essential services for vulnerable communities. The Congresswoman's line of questioning outlined the harmful consequences of policies championed locally by Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds, which Donald Trump and Republicans have tried to replicate at the national level.
A transcript of the Congresswoman's exchange with Governor Reynolds is below and the full video is available here.
Transcript: In Hearing, Pressley Slams GOP Attacks on DEI, Gutting of Essential Services for Vulnerable Communities
February 5, 2025
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
REP. PRESSLEY: By the hour, Donald Trump, Elon Musk, and his enablers advance their extremist, anti-equity, un-American agenda, dismantling decades of civil rights progress, upending livelihoods, incomes, and lives. And adversely affecting something they claim to care about, the GDP, because all data supports that Diversity, Equity and Inclusion is actually good business.
Governor Reynolds, my Republican colleagues invited you here today to promote what they see as a model of governance.
Simply put, Republicans' vision of America is to be more like Iowa.
Governor Reynolds, let's learn more about the state. Do you know what percentage of Iowans are white and what percentage are Black?
GOVERNOR REYNOLDS: I don't know the exact percentages, no, but by far a larger percentage of white population.
REP. PRESSLEY: That's correct, Iowa is 90% white. And only 4.5% Black.
So that is drastically different from the national population. So when Republicans suggest Iowa should be a national model, they are advocating for a government that doesn't reflect our country.
So, let's talk about what this model of governance actually means in practice.
In Iowa, you signed State Senate Bill 2385 to eliminate more than 80 state boards and commissions including those representing Black Iowans, Latinos, women, people with disabilities, and Asian and Pacific Islanders communities that are marginalized and vulnerable and have fought for decades to have a seat at the table.
Now, Republicans call this fiscal responsibility. I just call it erasure.
Governor Reynolds, the Iowa Legislative Services Agency conducted a non-partisan analysis of that bill. Do you know how much money was "saved" when you eliminated those commissions?
GOV. REYNOLDS: Actually, it was not about saving money, it was about putting more resources behind the Department of Human Rights
REP. PRESSLEY: Reclaiming my time.
Let me help you with the math. Roughly $112,000 in your state budget was saved, so that is 0.001%, barely a rounding error.
So honestly, given your current salary, Iowans would have saved more money just by eliminating your salary.
Mr. Chair, I ask unanimous consent to enter the LSA fiscal note into the record.
CHAIR COMER: Without objection, so ordered.
REP. PRESSLEY: In addition to cutting boards and commissions, Iowa started closing government agencies. Now this is the same thing that Elon Musk and Donald Trump are trying to do at the national level.
Now, Governor, I have no problem with Iowans, but I do with your leadership. So, let's look at the results, shall we.
In Iowa, there have been skyrocketing maternal mortality rates.
Mr. Chair, I ask unanimous consent to enter into the record this article titled: "Iowa's maternal death rate rises as birthing units close."
CHAIR COMER: Without objection, so ordered.
REP. PRESSLEY: In Iowa, students' test scores have been declining.
Mr. Chair, I ask unanimous consent to enter into the record this article titled: "Iowa scores in 50-state education rankings decline from years past."
CHAIR COMER: Without objection, so ordered.
REP. PRESSLEY: In Iowa, more kids are going hungry. Is this the kind of government efficiency y'all are talking about?
Mr. Chair, I ask unanimous consent to enter into the record this article titled: "Iowa's food pantries hit record high numbers this summer."
CHAIR COMER: Without objection, so ordered.
REP. PRESSLEY: So, let's be clear about what Republicans are actually doing.
You are making people poorer, you are making people hungrier, more vulnerable and gutting their civil rights.
These attacks on diversity, equity, and inclusion, they were never about efficiency. They certainly were never about merit.
It's just a deliberate, calculated attempt to erase marginalized communities from government while eliminating essential services for workers, families, and the people that we are actually elected to protect.
They want a country for and by millionaires that advances white supremacy.
And that is the real agenda. And I will do everything I can to speak truth to power and stand in the way of that.
I yield back.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
