




Newsweek.com
February 12, 2025 Wednesday 5:37 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 697 words
Byline: Monica Sager
Highlight: Ian Epstein was one of the four crew members on the flight that crashed midair near Reagan National Airport on January 29.
Body


A video from 2024 shows Ian Epstein, an attendant who died in the January 29 midair airplane crash near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, joking with passengers on a flight last year.
The Context
The collision between an  flight and a Black Hawk Army helicopter over the Potomac River was the first fatal  since 2009, when a propeller plane crashed near Buffalo, New York, killing nearly 50 people.
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have raised concerns about safety protocols, and in a news conference after the crash, President   may be partly to blame for the crash near Reagan National.
Trump also questioned air traffic controllers and the helicopter's path during the press briefing.
What To Know
The crash on January 29  who were on board both aircraft, including Epstein and has highlighted concerns about air traffic control,  and challenges that come with navigating shared airspaces near major metropolitan hubs.
The American Airlines flight had taken off from Wichita, Kansas, and was approaching landing at the airport near Washington, D.C., when it collided with the helicopter. The UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter was .
In the video filmed in September 2024, Epstein is seen joking with passengers on a flight from Charleston, South Carolina, to Charlotte, North Carolina.
Epstein, who became a flight attendant in February 2020, is seen in the video joking about the "nice guy in first class" who had "kindly agreed to give us his seventh ex-wife's triple platinum American Express card" for everyone on the plane to "play blackjack, roulette at the Indian casino, and we're all gonna stay at a Motel 6 tonight."
"You're a very nice man," Epstein said, pointing to the traveler. "If you all are good on the way to the hotel, he's promised to take us to the world's largest ball of twine."
People are heard in the background laughing as Epstein theatrically gasps and continues to joke, asking if the man would pay for the plane to go to Cracker Barrel.
"Anybody that does not want to go to Paducah, Kentucky, just raise your hand at this time," Epstein said. "Everybody, whatever, fine. We'll go to Charlotte, said nobody ever."
In the video, Epstein also calls out his "work wife," Penny, who had been on "day four of a four-day trip" with the attendant.
"We started this morning in Gainesville, Florida, and let me tell you something, 5:30 in the morning comes really quick," Epstein said.
A woman in the background started to chant for Florida schools, but Epstein said, "This is a Michigan airplane," and that "that lady gets no alcohol if she continues to fight for Florida schools."
"It's not my fault," Epstein said. "You didn't have the grades to get into a Big 10 school, ma'am."
Another attendant walks by and Epstein told him "you're late, get off my plane."
He also told the passengers he had a 2:46 p.m. tee time and would shoot an 88 par "if it doesn't rain."
Epstein also asked the passengers some jokes, like "Why does the duck have tail feathers?" ("It covers his butt quack") and "What do you call a cow on a trampoline?" ("A milkshake").
Speaking to People, Debi Epstein, Ian Epstein's ex-wife, said the flight attendant hadn't been scheduled to ride on the American Airlines flight that crashed but  with a colleague so he could go golfing the previous Sunday.
"This was not his line," Debi said. "This was not a flight he was supposed to be on."
What People Are Saying
Ian Epstein's ex-wife, Debi Epstein, told People: "He wanted to do it so badly, and I wanted him to have his dream. He absolutely loved being a flight attendant."
Ian Epstein, in the video: "We know the reason we have jobs is you guys are flying. We love you. We appreciate you. We're glad you're here."
What Happens Next
An investigation into the cause of the accident is underway.
As the plane wreckage gets removed from the river, the parts will be moved "to a secure location for a wreckage layout examination," the National Transportation Safety Board says.


Graphic

 
Ian Epstein
Sam Fensterstock via Storyful
A newly unearthed video showed Ian Epstein, a flight attendant who died in the January 29 DC plane crash, joking with passengers last year.

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
