




Newsweek.com
January 31, 2025 Friday 9:47 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 494 words
Byline: Anna Commander
Highlight: A small plane crashed near a shopping mall in Philadelphia on Friday, rattling city streets and residents.
Body


Numerous videos swirling on social media show the moments leading up to a plane crash in Philadelphia and the ensuing burst of fire.
Why It Matters
Friday night's crash in Philadelphia comes after a fatal midair collision on Wednesday night involving an  passenger plane and a Sikorsky H-60 military helicopter. The airline previously told Newsweek there were 60 passengers and four crew members on board. The Black Hawk helicopter had three soldiers on board. It is believed there are no survivors.
Recent airplane incidents and close calls nationwide have raised concerns of safety protocols, and in a news conference on Thursday, President   may be partly to blame for Wednesday night's crash near Washington, D.C.'s Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
Friday night's crash in Philadelphia was near a shopping mall in a heavily trafficked area of the city during evening rush hour.
What To Know
According to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Friday's crash involved a Learjet 55. The crash occurred around 6:30 p.m. ET after departing the Northeast Philadelphia Airport. The agency says the plane was en route to Springfield-Branson National Airport in Missouri.
The crash occurred near the Roosevelt Mall near Cottman and Bustleton Avenues. There were six people on board, the FAA confirmed in a post on X, formerly . There are "no reports on the number of fatalities," Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle Parker said in a press briefing.
In , Jet Rescue Air Ambulance said there were four crew members on board and two passengers, including one pediatric patient. The Associated Press reports that the jet was a medical transport aircraft.
Social Media Videos, Reactions to the Crash
Numerous videos of the crash have been posted on social media.
Philadelphia Guy  of the crash's aftermath, showing a roaring fire and heavy trail of smoke.
Fox News posted a  showing a large orange blaze take over the sky.
Fox 29 News reporter Steve Keeley  showing the moments after the plane crashed.
X account Fredrick Van Hook  capturing the moment the plane descended from the sky and the explosion that followed.
What People Are Saying
Philadelphia Office of Emergency Management said on X: "Expect the extended closure of Cottman Avenue between the Roosevelt Boulevard and Bustleton Avenue and outer southbound lanes of the Boulevard for the incident response. Avoid area and make alternate travel plans."
President Donald Trump is aware of the crash and posted to Truth Social: "So sad to see the plane go down in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. More innocent souls lost. Our people are totally engaged. First Responders are already being given credit for doing a great job. More to follow. God Bless you all."
This is a breaking story and will be updated with additional information.


Graphic

 
Philadelphia plane crash
Philadelphia Mayor Cherelle Parker seen speaking during a news conference following a plane crash in a neighborhood in Northeast Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on January 31, 2025. (Photo by Kriston Bethel / AFP) (Photo by KRISTON BETHEL/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
