




USA Today Online
February 14, 2025 12:18 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: KANSAS CITY NEWS, KANSAS CITY NEWS, KANSAS CITY NEWS, KANSAS CITY NEWS & SPORTS: COLLEGE FOOTBALL NEWS
Length: 514 words
Byline: Andre Byik, USA TODAY
Body


The claim: Video shows Super Bowl crowd cheering Trump
A Feb. 10 Facebook post (, ) shows President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump walking onto a football field to a chorus of cheers.
"Trump got a standing ovation at the Super Bowl!" the post's caption reads. "The crowd went wild cheering for him."
It was shared nearly 4,000 times in three days.
More from the Fact-Check Team: |  | 
Our rating: False
The video is miscaptioned. The video shows Trump at the 2020 college football national championship game, not Super Bowl LIX in 2025. 
Post misrepresents video of Trump at College Football Playoff title game
Trump became the  president to attend a Super Bowl on Feb. 9, watching as the Philadelphia Eagles built a commanding lead over the Kansas City Chiefs before leaving the game . Philadelphia went on  Kansas City, 40-22.
But the video in the Facebook post doesn't show Trump at Super Bowl 59 or any previous Super Bowl. Rather, it shows fans cheering for him at the College Football Playoff title game between Louisiana State University and Clemson University in New Orleans .
CBS 17 in North Carolina  of Trump and his wife walking onto the field at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome on YouTube over five years ago.  also photographed Trump and the first lady at the 2020 college football national championship game, where , 42-25.
Fact check: 
Trump's reception at the 2025 Super Bowl was a mixed bag. Footage shared by the  the crowd cheering for him when he was shown saluting during the national anthem.  the president was met with cheers and boos at the game.
USA TODAY has debunked other social media claims involving the 2025 Super Bowl, including a video that had been manipulated  and an image that had been altered to show  blaming Kansas City's loss on "DEI nonsense."
USA TODAY reached out to the Facebook user who shared the post for comment but did not immediately receive a response.
Our fact-check sources
CBS 17 (YouTube), Jan. 14, 2020, 
Getty Images, Jan. 14, 2020, 
NFL (YouTube), Feb. 9, 
USA TODAY, Feb. 10, 
Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can .
USA TODAY is a  of the International Fact-Checking Network, which requires a demonstrated commitment to nonpartisanship, fairness and transparency. Our fact-check work is supported in part by a .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
