




The Daily Cardinal: University of Wisconsin - Madison
February 14, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 524 words
Byline: Audrey Lopez-Stane
Body


Assembly Speaker Robin Vos, R-Rochester, condemned race-centered diversity, equity and inclusion at a Center for Research on the Wisconsin Economy event Wednesday. He instead advocated for conservative voices to be uplifted at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Vos said he wants to implement "intellectual diversity," which would ensure at least one conservative faculty member in every school at UW-Madison. He said intellectual diversity is equal to racial and gender DEI.
"How is it different rejecting somebody based because they're African American or because they're an immigrant? It is no different," Vos said at Wednesday's event.
Intellectual diversity could help manage the social and political rejection conservatives face at UW-Madison, Vos said. He added that having a different viewpoint, particularly a conservative stance, is the only "allowable discrimination" on campus due to partisanship.
Vos said the liberal majority in the student body perpetuates conservative rejection at UW-Madison. While Wisconsin has been aconsistent swing statefor most recent presidential elections, Vos said Madison has a 80% liberal student body that is "totally unrepresentative" of the rest of the state.
In previous years, Vos has said that DEI is a "religion for the left," making the initiative a partisan issue. He has consistently opposed DEI efforts, formerlywithholding funding from UW Systemin 2023 until cuts were made.
These actions align with the new Trump administration'sDEI roll backs. TheWhite Houseunder President Trump has deemed DEI programs, like affirmative action, "radical and wasteful."
"I do not believe in racial affirmative action," Vos said.
Rather than being a racial problem, Vos claimed theNative American student minorityat UW-Madison was because of poverty or inaccessible resources. He said it's a "disservice to the entire country" to only focus on racial diversity.
Native Americansmake up 1%of the student body at UW-Madison. In-state students enrolled in one of the federally recognized tribes in Wisconsin get full tuition covered from theWisconsin Tribal Education Promise, which is privately funded.
Vos further denounced thecontinual recognitionof the Indigenous land UW-Madison is built on, claiming it only creates more racial tension by making people feel bad for "the fact that a mistake was made 500 years ago that we can't correct."
UW-Madisonrecognizesthe Indigenous land Madison is built on. The university"respects the inherent sovereignty of the Ho-Chunk Nation"after years of ethnic cleansing and colonization. The land acknowledgement and tribal tuition funding are seen asreparations and a partnershipbetween the tribes and the state.
Enjoy what you're reading? Get content from The Daily Cardinal delivered to your inbox
Email
Vos insisted there is no point to Indigenous recognition because "we're not going to give the land back" to the Native Americans, despite thesupportfor reparations.
Race is "the only thing that matters in an awful lot of programs" at UW-Madison, Vos said. According to him, addressing tribal land and racial diversity overall only creates "destruction and division in society."

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
