




USA Today Online
February 12, 2025 10:41 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: RUSSIA NEWS
Length: 700 words
Byline: Rebecca Morin, USA TODAY
Body


Planning for date night or evening out with friends just got easier with our new list of top eateries. Get ready for a nationwide boycott on major retailers. And 14 legends are contenders for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
Howdy!  here. Ready for Wednesday’s news? I know I am.
But first: Can’t find the words to express your love?  Good thing we’re pretty good with that. USA TODAY has you covered 
The best restaurant near you? We found it.
How many times have you opened up Google to search for the best place to eat when you want a break from the kitchen? Don’t worry, I do it too. And now, the best restaurants across the nation are easier to find. Journalists who live and work in these communities have laid out the top gems in USA TODAY’s second annual Restaurants of the Year. From a classic taco joint in Arizona to a historic Serbian diner in Wisconsin, the picks on this list will get your stomachs growling.  
An inside look at how USA TODAY chose 

Trump and Putin talk Ukraine
President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday discussed ending Russia’s war with Ukraine after Russia invaded Ukraine nearly three years ago. Trump, who has criticized the amount of aid the U.S. has given to Ukraine, said in a post on Truth Social that he and Putin have “agreed to work together, very closely,” including each leader visiting the other’s nation.  
Graffiti and middle fingers: Cybertrucks inspire backlash 
Senate confirms Tulsi Gabbard for 
Real quick
How Marvel's 'Brave New World' embraces a 
Watch Anna Delvey walk a NYFW runway –
A Cybertruck hit and run? Duolingo reveals how its .
Travis Kelce talks Super Bowl loss, 
Scientists studied a mystery of the sea. 
Support the Short List and 
DEI rollbacks spark boycott movement
Put your money where your mouth is. And for some consumers, that means keeping their money in their pockets. As some businesses retreat from diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives amid President Donald Trump’s actions to eliminate federal DEI programs, consumers are protesting by calling for a 24-hour spending blackout this month. 
What's going on: Organizers are calling on consumers to boycott specific retailers and to refrain from spending any money at all on Feb. 28. The call for boycotts coincide with Black History Month and come in the wake of similar campaigns from conservative activists who have pushed large companies to do away with diversity initiatives. ️  .
Who rocked hard enough for the Hall of Fame?
Can we get a drumroll please? From Billy Joel to the White Stripes and even Mariah Carey, 14 artists were announced as nominees for the 2025 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame class. Personally, I'm counting down the days that My Chemical Romance can be inducted, but until then, we're stuck with the "classics."
Who is eligible? An artist or band must have released its first commercial recording at least 25 years before the year of the nomination. Inductees will be announced in late April after a panel of artists, historians and music industry professionals consider an artist’s impact, the scope of their work, their innovation and their excellence in technique, then cast their vote.
First-timers: The artists who are nominated for the first time include Bad Company, The Black Crowes, Chubby Checker, Joe Cocker, Billy Idol, Maná, Outkast and Phish.  
A break from the news
Ready to hit the gym? Check out the new Nike .
Help us pick the best picture. .
How to make homemade 
Rebecca Morin is a senior national news reporter at USA TODAY. Got thoughts or feedback? Reach out to her at .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 12, 2025


End of Document
