




thetimes.co.uk
February 24, 2025 Monday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 446 words
Byline: Alex Ralph, Chief Business Correspondent
Highlight: The veteran investor said most of Berkshire Hathaway shareholders’ money was still held in equities
Body


Warren Buffett has avowed Berkshire Hathaway’s commitment to equities as the veteran billionaire investor defended the company’s record cash pile in his annual letter to shareholders.
Buffett, 94, dubbed the Sage of Omaha, has a long track record of striking big deals but the high valuations in US stocks has curbed activity and alongside stock disposals, 
, has led the conglomerate’s cash pile to hit $334.2 billion at the end of 2024.
“Despite what some commentators currently view as an extraordinary cash position at Berkshire, the great majority of your money remains in equities,” Buffett wrote. 
“That preference won’t change. While our ownership in marketable equities moved downward last year from $354 billion to $272 billion, the value of our non-quoted controlled equities increased somewhat and remains far greater than the value of the marketable portfolio.”
He added: “Berkshire shareholders can rest assured that we will forever deploy a substantial majority of their money in equities, mostly American equities, although many of these will have international operations of significance.”
Berkshire, led by Buffett for 60 years, has grown to become a $1 trillion conglomerate with dozens of businesses spanning insurance, rail and energy as well as stakes in some of America’s largest companies, such as American Express, Coca-Cola and Moody’s.
Buffett’s 15-page annual letter was issued alongside fourth-quarter results, showing a record operating profit of $47.4 billion for 2024, up 27 per cent year-on-year, before its annual shareholder gathering in Omaha in May.
Buffett, the world’s sixth-richest person with an estimated net worth of $149.5 billion, according to Forbes, said that “it won’t be long” before Greg Abel, 62, the vice-chairman of Berkshire, replaced him as chief executive and referred to his age and use of a cane, which he said was to avoid “falling flat on my face”.
He also used his annual letter to warn on the importance of a stable US dollar, saying “paper money can see its value evaporate if fiscal folly prevails”.
The warning came as investors considered 
’s plans to cut federal spending while triggering a potentially inflationary tariff war.
Trump’s agenda against the 
 (DEI) targets has, meanwhile, led a number of big US companies, including Berkshire, to curb their pronouncements. Discussing recruitment and retention, the company’s annual report previously stated that it was done in part through hiring practices “intended to identify qualified candidates and promote diversity and inclusion in the workforce”. Its latest report ended that passage after “candidates.”

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
