




MailOnline
February 23, 2025 Sunday 4:52 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: MONEY; Version:1
Length: 519 words
Byline: Reuters Sophie Gable For Dailymail.Com
Body


Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway joined a growing list of American companies to publicly change their approach to discussing their commitment to diversity and inclusion in light of Trump administration's cracking down on DEI policies. 
Berkshire's annual report includes a section describing how the conglomerate's 189 operating businesses, which employ about 392,400 people, depend on human capital and resources, and that each establishes practices to attract and retain employees.
Last year's report said the businesses accomplished this in part through hiring practices 'intended to identify qualified candidates and promote diversity and inclusion in the workforce.'
This year's report omitted the discussion of diversity and inclusion, ending that passage after 'candidates.'
Buffett's assistant did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Berkshire has long said its decentralized structure allows individual operating businesses to make their own day-to-day operating decisions without interference from the top.
The company joined dozens of major US companies including Amazon.com, Boeing, Citigroup, Ford, McDonald's, Morgan Stanley and Walmart in curbing public support or initiatives for diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace.
Such initiatives have been attacked by many conservatives including Trump, who has tried to eliminate DEI from the federal government.
At Berkshire's annual meeting last May, shareholders voted down by a nearly 4-1 margin a proposal that Berkshire disclose more about its efforts to promote DEI in the workplace. Berkshire's board of directors opposed the proposal.
Buffett has run Berkshire since 1965. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company owns Geico car insurance, the BNSF railroad, and an array of energy, industrial, retail and service businesses.
Berkshire ended 2024 with $321.4 billion in cash, following the firm's investment strategy of prioritizing stocks over cash.
The firm has now declared a focus in investing in the five Japanese trading houses, Itochu, Marubeni, Mitsubishi, Mitsui and Sumitomo.
'Over time, you will likely see Berkshire's ownership of all five increase somewhat,' Buffett wrote in the letter. 
At the end of the year, Berkshire's Japanese holdings reached a market value of $23.5 billion. 
The conglomerate's total market value passed $1 trillion for the first time last year, which Buffett attributes to the strategy of 'mushrooming.' 
Berkshire sold more stocks than it bought for nine consecutive quarters, as the company hasn't paid dividends to shareholders since 1967. 
In his annual shareholder letter, Buffett acknowledged his age, and admitted, 'it won't be long,' before Vice Chairman Greg Abel took over. 
Buffett, who is set to turn 95 in August, praised Abel as his successor, and assured shareholders that he would continue the practice of sending an annual report. 
'And he also understands that if you start fooling your shareholders, you will soon believe your own baloney and be fooling yourself as well,' Buffett added.
The CEO concluded his letter by expressing his excitement for the company's annual meeting on May 3. 

Load-Date: February 23, 2025


End of Document
