




thetimes.co.uk
January 31, 2025 Friday 10:15 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 6086 words
Byline: Kieran Gair | Tom Parfitt | Bevan Hurley, Senior Reporter, US | Andrea Blanco, US Reporter
Highlight: Helicopter was said to be at least 100ft higher than permitted and was half a mile off its agreed flight path when the collision happened over the Potomac
Body


President Trump doubled down on his assertion that the military helicopter involved in Wednesday’s midair collision had been flying above its permissible altitude.
Speaking from the Oval Office he said the Black Hawk was “out of its zone”. He added: “The Black Hawk was too high, it was above the 200ft limit by double.” 
The president said he was unconcerned that his statements could sway the outcome of an investigation into the cause of the crash. “It’ll probably come out the way I said it,” he said. “I like to put it up front. I’m so tired of listening to things happen to our country and people say ‘I’ll do an investigation’ and three years later they’ll come out with a report that nobody looks at.”
He again cast blame for the crash on the Biden administration’s “bad rules and regulations”.
Robert Isom, the American Airlines CEO, has thanked the Trump administration for its response to the collision. “We are all hurting as we continue to grieve the loss of our passengers and team members. I thank President Trump for his leadership on aviation safety,” Isom said.
He praised the administration’s “quick and decisive action” to restrict helicopter activity around Reagan National Airport.
“In the days ahead we will work tirelessly with the administration and leaders in Congress to make our aviation system even safer, including by increasing investments in infrastructure, technology and personnel,” he added.
Most military helicopters have been prohibited from flying near flight paths around the airport.
Doug Zeghibe, the Skating Club of Boston’s executive director, said he was focused on helping his community grieve. “I don’t want to get involved in the politics of who did what,” Zeghibe said. “There’s a lot of speculation. I know President Trump has his own ideas. That’s his job, to get us to what happened. For our folks here, we are just dealing with the loss.”
Zeghibe has organised counselling for members and is planning to celebrate the lives of the six members who died. “I think perhaps a naming ceremony here at our club, for one of our rooms, our rinks, our spaces,” he said.
He has been inundated with messages from the international skating community. Zeghibe said he hoped the 1961 plane crash that killed every member of the US figure skating team would serve as a cautionary tale on how to process loss.
“It was something nobody would talk about, a dark cloud,” he said. “I don’t want that experience to happen to our young kids today. It’s important to let them know it’s OK to ask for help and that the kids and the coaches’ memories will be with all of us for ever but the trauma won’t linger,” Zeghibe said. “I’m glad to see skaters back on the rink today. I think it shows how incredibly resilient these athletes are.”
The coach of Jinna Han, who was killed in Wednesday’s air crash, said the teenage figure skater had been determined to qualify for an ice skating competition held in Wichita, Kansas, this week.
Olga Ganicheva shared memories of Jinna, 15, and Spencer Lane, 16, who were killed along with their mothers and two coaches from the Skating Club of Boston.
“[Jinna] said ‘Ms Olga, believe in me.’ And she did it, she got all of her jumps right,” Ganicheva said. “But if she hadn’t gone to the championships, she would still be alive.”
The coach remembered Spencer as a “superhero on the rink, who would fly, fall and keep flying” and dreamt of making it to the world championships. “I want to cry but I tell myself, ‘Stop, you have to be strong for my skaters,'” Ganicheva said. “I have to be strong for them to motivate them to keep working, to keep fighting.”
The US Army have formally identified two of the three soldiers who were killed in the collision between a Black Hawk helicopter and an American Eagle passenger jet.
Andrew Eaves, 39, a chief warrant officer 2, and Ryan O’Hara, 28, a staff sergeant were on a UH-60 military helicopter that collided with an American Airlines jet over the Potomac River in Washington.
Both had earlier been named by family members.
The military took the rare step of withholding the identity of a third female soldier who is presumed to have died in the crash at the request of her family. The soldier’s remains have not yet been recovered, an army spokesman said.
A total of 67 lives were killed, including 60 passengers and four crew members who were on the American Airlines jet.
A transgender Black Hawk pilot has spoken out after being falsely identified as a crew member of the helicopter that collided with a passenger jet on Wednesday.
Jo Ellis, a member of the Virginia National Guard, shared screenshots of social media posts alleging she had been involved in the crash. One user said they “wouldn’t be surprised” if “the pilot was trans”.
“Some craziness has happened on the internet and I’m being named as one of the pilots of the DC crash,” Ellis posted. “It’s insulting to the victims and families of those lost and they deserve better than this BS from the bots and trolls of the internet.”
President Trump has said that diversity, equity and including hiring decisions by the Biden administration were a factor in the crash, without providing any evidence.
Terry Liercke, an official at Reagan National Airport, declined to say whether he had raised concerns with the FAA about congestion in the skies around the airport.
“Where does the buck stop with this accident?” a reporter asked Liercke, who responded that questions around air traffic safety were better directed at the FAA and Congress.
The FAA has restricted all military helicopters from flying in the skies around Reagan National Airport while investigations continue.
There had been “a lot of challenges” to recovering the remaining bodies, John Donnelly Sr, the Washington DC fire chief, said, including adverse weather that had slowed recovery efforts.
He would not provide a timescale for how long it would take to retrieve the victims, but said they would begin the process of pulling the aircraft out of the water on Saturday.
Donnelly said that more than 500 first responders had been involved in the recovery effort, spanning dozens of different agencies. More than 300 firefighters, police officers and military officials were working on the operation at any one time, he said. “This has been a tough response for a lot of people,” Donnelly said, adding that restaurants and charities had been providing hot meals to the teams.
John Donnelly Sr, the head of Washington’s fire and emergency service, said that the “heartbreaking work” to recover bodies from the Potomac River continued.
He added that the remains of 41 people had been recovered and 28 had been identified so far.
The families of 18 victims have been identified. Donnelly is providing an update on the operation at Reagan National Airport.
Terry Liercke, vice-president and manager at Washington DC’s airport, said that about 100 flights had been cancelled on Friday as the airport continued to operate at a reduced capacity. He said two of the airport’s three runways had been closed to accommodate the recovery operations.
A Black Hawk helicopter appeared to be flying 100ft above the maximum permitted altitude moments before Wednesday’s midair collision with a passenger jet, according to a report.
Flight-tracking data showed the military helicopter had veered from its prescribed route on the east of the Potomac River and collided with the American Airlines plane, according to CNN.
The Black Hawk’s data recording device has not yet been recovered. Both President Trump and Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, have said the helicopter had been flying too high at the time of the crash.
Officials are about to give an update on the recovery operation at Reagan National Airport.
The bodies of 41 of the 67 victims had been recovered from the Potomac River in Washington when the search was suspended on Thursday night.
Rescue crews resumed the search on Friday but were facing fog, rain and strong gusts, along with near-zero visibility in the water.
The US defence department is launching its own investigation of the collision. It will be carried out alongside an inquiry by the National Transportation Safety Board.
The Black Hawk helicopter appeared to have been flying above the permitted altitude of military aircraft in the vicinity of Reagan National Airport.
Investigators said earlier on Friday they were yet to recover the helicopter’s black box data recorder.
Two of the three military personnel on the helicopter have been identified as Andrew Eaves and Ryan O’Hara.
Tonya Harding, a former US figure skater, has expressed her grief over Wednesday’s crash.
“The events that took place are absolutely devastating,” she posted on Instagram.
Several members of the US figure skating team who had been in Wichita for the national championships died, along with promising young skaters, their coaches and family members.
“I’m sending my love and prayers to all the victims and their families,” Harding added.
Harding’s longtime rival, Nancy Kerrigan, has also spoken of the severe impact that the crash has had on the tight-knit skating community.
Harding and Kerrigan became embroiled in controversy in 1994 when Kerrigan was attacked by a man hired by Harding’s ex-husband. The scandal was dramatised in the 2017 film 
                   I, Tonya                   
, starring Margot Robbie as Harding and Caitlin Carver, as Kerrigan.
On Thursday Trump and other cabinet officials held a moment’s silence for the victims of the air disaster during a White House press briefing before expressing his disdain for Pete Buttigieg, the former transportation secretary.
“He was a disaster as a mayor, he ran his city into the ground, and he’s a disaster. Now, he’s just got a good line of bullshit,” the president said of the former mayor of South Bend, Indiana.
A reporter asked Leavitt whether the president regarded the use of profanity as an effective communications device. “Or is it something that he lapses into inadvertently, perhaps in times of frustration and later regrets?”
The press secretary responded that Trump was expressing his “great frustration, perhaps even anger” with the Biden administration’s policies.
“Many of which have led to the crises that our country is currently facing and that this president is focused on fixing,” she said.
The press briefing has now finished.
Asked whether a hiring freeze in the government had affected staffing levels at Reagan National Airport, Leavitt said the president was intent on increased hiring at aviation agencies.
She stressed that any hiring would be merit-based, and applicants would not be asked about their race or the colour of their skin. “When you are flying on an airplane with your loved ones, which every one of us in this room has, do you pray that your plane lands safely and gets you to your destination,” Leavitt said.
“Or do you pray that the pilot has a certain skin colour? I think we all know the answer to that question. And as President Trump said yesterday, it’s common sense.”
A reporter asked whether 150,000 American workers with disabilities had the right to work in the American government, in light of Trump’s comments on DEI. “What matters to this president and this administration is how well you can do your job, and the American people agree with that sentiment,” Leavitt replied. “So it’s about competence, skill, and merit.”
She said the president was focused on finding the “best and the brightest”, especially when it came to public safety.
Karoline Leavitt was asked about a Truth Social post from Trump where he stated that the Black Hawk helicopter had been above a 200ft ceiling in the airspace around Reagan National Airport.
“Is he suggesting a helicopter malfunction or a crew error or a crew doing this intentionally?” a reporter asked.
The White House press secretary replied that the president had simply pointed out that the helicopter was flying higher than it should have been “which is one of the reasons that led to this collision”.
“And the other reasons for that are still being investigated,” Leavitt added. “I will let that investigation play out.”
Leavitt said that the president made his assessment that the Black Hawk was flying too high after briefings from investigators. The president was continuing to receive briefings from Sean Duffy, the transportation secretary, and Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, she added.
Karoline Leavitt was asked about comments by President Trump that diversity, equity and inclusion policies had played a part in the crash.
A reporter asked the White House press secretary whether it was safe to fly on commercial airlines given that Trump had claimed that DEI hires had been made in the aviation industry.
“The president said it is still safe to fly,” Leavitt responded. “He wants pilots in this country … to be chosen for that position based on their merit and their skills,” Leavitt said.
Karoline Leavitt, the White House press secretary, said President Trump had directed an immediate assessment of the Federal Aviation Administration after Wednesday’s “catastrophic air collision”.
Leavitt said the review would examine all hiring decisions and changes to safety protocols under the Biden administration to make sure the government was maintaining the highest possible standards.
“Everyone in this White House continues to mourn the victims and keep their families and friends in their thoughts,” she added.

A member of the Mississippi National Guard who was on board the Black Hawk helicopter has been identified.
Andrew Eaves, a married father of two, was one of three military personnel who were killed, along with 64 passengers and crew on the commercial flight. The 39-year-old was serving as a training instructor in the US Army’s Bravo Company, 12th Aviation Battalion, out of Fort Belvoir in Virginia.
“Mississippi is mourning the loss of Brooksville native Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Eaves, who was killed in last night’s accident at Reagan National Airport,” Tate Reeves, the Mississippi governor, posted on X. “Elee and I are praying for the victims’ families and first responders who are assisting.”
His wife, Carrie Eaves, asked for prayers for all of the families who had lost loved ones in the crash in a Facebook post.
The leader crew member was named on Thursday as Ryan O’Hara.
American Airlines will retire the flight number 5342 after Wednesday’s collision between its Bombardier CRJ700 regional jet and a Black Hawk helicopter.
It is a standard procedure after major air incidents to respect the victims and avoid any negative association with the number.
Robert Isom, the American Airlines chief executive, said the midair crash that claimed the lives of 64 passengers and crew and three military personnel “weighs heavily on our airline, the industry and the world”.
Investigators hope a black box from the US Black Hawk will yield crucial answers as to what caused the midair collision over the Potomac River.
Pete Hegseth, the defence secretary, told 
                   Fox & Friends                   
 on Fox News that the data recorder had not yet been recovered. He said it was still unclear who was flying the military helicopter at the time of the crash.
“You had a captain in training. You had a chief warrant officer II as an instructor, and then you also had a staff sergeant in that Black Hawk as well,” he said. “Who was talking, who was on the comms, who was piloting? And then what if any confusion was there at the end, right?”
On Friday President Trump said that the Black Hawk had been flying far higher than its 200ft limit in the airspace near Reagan National Airport.
“We’re looking at altitude, and the president was clear about that,” Hegseth added. “Someone was at the wrong altitude. The investigation will help us understand that.”
A colonel in the Philippines National Police was among the passengers on board the American Airlines flight 5342.
Pergentino N Malabed, 50, chief of the force’s supply management division, was heading to the Philippine embassy in Washington on official business, Philippines police said in a statement on Facebook.
“His untimely passing is a profound loss to the PNP, where he served with honour, integrity, and dedication throughout his career,” the statement said. “His contributions to the PNP and the nation will never be forgotten.”
Two Chinese nationals were also on board, the Chinese Embassy in Washington said.
The search for the missing victims from Wednesday’s midair crash over Washington resumed on Friday morning amid rain, fog and strong gusts.
The forecast in the US capital was for light rain throughout the morning followed by steadier downpours later in the afternoon. The blustery conditions are expected to persist through the evening, with gusts up to 30mph.
Temperatures are forecast to fall to minus 2C (28F) on Saturday.
Of the 67 passengers, crew and military personnel who died, 41 bodies have been recovered.
The Federal Aviation Administration has closed the airspace around Reagan National Airport to most helicopter traffic indefinitely.
An FAA official told the Associated Press that it would ban most helicopters from low altitude routes near the Washington airport’s flight paths after Wednesday’s midair collision.
The airspace above the crash site had already been restricted as recovery teams continued to search for bodies. All flights in and out of the airport were stopped for about 14 hours after the crash.
The FAA said it expected flight delays would continue until midnight on Friday.
A science educator from Kansas who had been elected to head the US National Association of Biology Teachers (NABT) was among those killed.
Lindsey Fields, 38, was travelling to Washington to promote science education when the American Airlines plane collided with a military helicopter.
Fields was the biology department chair at Butler Community College in Kansas, where she taught biology, anatomy, and physiology. “Lindsey was a colleague, friend, and educator who dedicated her wisdom and talents to changing students’ lives every day,” the college said. “We owe her much gratitude for sharing her light with us and we will forever feel this loss.”
Fields said in an online profile that she enjoyed travelling, cooking, reading, hiking and spending time with her family and great danes.
“This is a tremendous loss,” the NABT board of directors said. “Please keep Lindsey, the other victims, and their families in your hearts.”
A moment of silence was held for the victims of the collision at the European Figure Skating Championships in Tallinn, Estonia.
More than a dozen coaches, promising young skaters and members of their families were killed in the crash near Washington on Wednesday night.
Tara Lipinski, 42, a former US champion figure skater and commentator, described the loss to the community as “unimaginable”.
“My heart is with all the families affected and that’s the part I have no words for. It will not do it justice,” she said, adding that the “skating community will never be the same”.
Two teenage skaters, Spencer Lane and Jinna Han, their mothers and coaches Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov from the Skating Club of Boston died in the crash.
Audio recording has captured air traffic controllers warning the crew of a US Black Hawk of an approaching passenger jet moments before the two aircraft collided.
The military helicopter, referred to as Pat 25 on the audio, is informed by controllers at Reagan National Airport that the American Airlines Bombardier CRJ was preparing to land.
“Traffic just south of the Woodrow Bridge, a CRJ, it’s 1,200ft setting up for Runway 33,” the air traffic controller is heard saying in the audio obtained by Reuters.
The Black Hawk pilot acknowledges he has seen a passenger jet, but it is unclear if he is referring to the American Airlines plane. 
As the two aircraft came closer together, the air traffic controller asked: “PAT 25, do you have the CRJ in sight?” The controller then tells the Black Hawk pilot to “pass behind” the American Airlines plane.
“PAT 25, has the traffic in sight, request visual separation,” the pilot replied.
Moments later gasps can be heard from the control tower as the two aircraft collided before falling into the Potomac River. “Tower, did you see that?” the pilot of a third plane is heard saying. “Crash, crash, crash, this is an alert three,” a controller then said.
Sean Duffy, the US transportation secretary, said he had met the families of the victims who died in the midair collision over the Potomac River.
“Their pain is immeasurable,” he wrote in a post on X. “I can’t take away their pain, but I can do a very small part to help ease it by keeping my promise to get to the bottom of what happened and be 100 per cent transparent about the results of the investigation. They have my word.”
Duffy was sworn in to his position to lead the Department of Transportation on Wednesday, hours before the Black Hawk helicopter collided with an American Airlines plane. 
“This is not what I expected my first day on the job to be, but I do believe that God puts us exactly where we’re supposed to be,” Duffy added.
A civil rights lawyer and former Miss Kansas contestant was among the victims in Wednesday’s midair collision. 
Kiah Duggins, 30, was remembered as a “brave and beautiful soul” who had been a “light in the fight for civil rights”.
Duggins was born in Wichita, Kansas, and served as a White House intern under Michelle Obama. She went on to earn a degree from Harvard Law School, and she was due to start as a professor at Howard University School of Law in Washington DC this year.
“As a civil rights lawyer, she dedicated her career to fighting against unconstitutional policing and unjust money bail practices in Tennessee, Texas and Washington, DC,” Howard University president, Ben Vinson III, said.
Duggins was a top ten finalist in the 2014 Miss Kansas pageant.
“Her loss is heartbreaking, not only for her family and friends but for everyone who believes in justice and equality,” said Lacey Cruse, a former county commissioner, in a Facebook post.
Pete Hegseth, the US defence secretary, said that the military’s “continuity” training was critical to preparing for a major attack or natural disaster.
The Black Hawk helicopter that collided midair with an American Airlines flight was carrying out a continuity of government training exercise, to familiarise pilots with flight routes around Washington DC in the event that key officials needed to evacuate.
“You need to train as you fight, you need to rehearse in ways that would reflect a real world scenario,” Hegseth said on Fox News.
Hegseth said that the military had to mitigate risks during such missions. But he stressed that they were necessary in the event that there was a “real world event where things needed to happen”.
Hegseth added that the US military would prioritise merit-based hiring under his leadership.
“I don’t care about your background, your gender or your skin colour, I want the best,” he said.
An Olympic champion figure skater said his “heart was shattered” over the deaths of promising skaters and coaches in Wednesday’s collision.
Scott Hamilton, 66, who won gold at the 1984 Winter games, said he had spent time with several of the victims at the national figure skating championships held in Wichita, Kansas, earlier this week.
“I can’t wrap my head around the last 36 hours … the loss is just beyond description,” he told NBC.
He paid tribute to Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov, the Russian former world champions who coached at the Skating of Boston club.
“They were amazing champion skaters that wanted to build their professional lives in America,” he said.
“When you’re in skating, there are no national boundaries.”
Recovery teams have retrieved 41 bodies from the Potomac River, authorities said.
A further 26 bodies remain missing. It is unclear which victims are still unaccounted for.
Washington DC’s emergency services said crews were expected to resume searching early this morning.
President Trump has claimed the helicopter appeared to have been flying higher than air traffic control had approved.
He wrote on Truth Social: “The Blackhawk helicopter was flying too high, by a lot. It was far above the 200 foot limit. That’s not really too complicated to understand, is it???”
The cause of the crash remains unclear.
Officials are aiming to release a preliminary report into the incident within 30 days, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has said.
Warnings about the excessive number of aircraft flying over Washington were repeatedly raised by US senators.
Mark Warner, Tim Kaine, Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin were among several high-profile Democrats to object to the addition of ten commercial flights into Reagan national airport.
 “As we have said countless times before, DCA’s (the airport code of Reagan national airport) runway is already the busiest in the country,” they wrote last year.
“Forcing the airport to cram additional flights in its already crowded schedule will further strain its resources at a time when air traffic controllers are overburdened and exhausted, working ten-hour days, six days a week.
Despite the objections, a bipartisan body of congressional officials approved the ten additional commercial flights into Reagan national airport.
Following the deadly collision, Kaine said: “I will not be able to rewatch the speech I gave on the Senate floor about it because it would make me too upset.”
The newest slots are not yet in use, but are due to start shortly. 
Rescue divers will shortly begin salvage operations as they work to pull the wreckage of the helicopter and plane from the Potomac River on Friday. 
Officials warned of a “significant increase in traffic along the waterfront” and urged residents not to touch or remove any items that might be related to the incident.
Divers will face difficult conditions with Washington expecting persistent rain on Friday, according to the country’s National Weather Service.
Investigators confirmed earlier that they have recovered a cockpit voice recorder and a flight-data recorder — devices often referred to as black boxes.
The devices are currently being examined at a lab by experts from the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB).
A former champion Russian ice dancer has praised Vadim Naumov and Evgenia Shishkova, the married skating coaches who died on Flight 5342, for being a dedicated couple and for backing him in a Moscow sports scandal.
Andrei Bushkov, 55, a former pair skater who represented Russia in the 1990s, told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that the couple were inseparable.
“From the moment they took each other by the hand in sports school they did not part,” he said, adding that Shishkova and Naumov “really complemented each other, like yin and yang”.
Bushkov, a world champion in 1996, also recalled that the couple supported him before the 1998 Nagano Winter Olympics. Bushkov and his skating partner were supposed to represent Russia but were withdrawn after one of his skates broke during a preparatory tournament, prompting accusations that he had sabotaged it because he was afraid of losing.
“The officials called Vadim and suggested he and Evgenia go [to the Olympics] instead but they refused,” he said. “They didn’t step over me, for which I will always be grateful.”
Bushkov later unsuccessfully tried to sue the British producer of the skate, John Wilson, for $1 million.
Dance partners Angela Yang and Sean Kay were named on Friday as some of the youngest victims of the plane crash.
The promising young figure skaters had been returning from the National Development Camp held in Wichita, Kansas. Their coach, Sasha Kirsanov, died with them.
“Sasha Kirsanov, Sean Kay, and Angela Yang went to Wichita to pursue their passion for figure skating. It is a tragedy that none of them returned home to our state,” Chris Coons, a Delaware senator, said.
Yang posted on Instagram on January 29 that she “had so much fun at camp”, hours before she was confirmed dead alongside Sean, her dance partner.
Kirsanov’s wife, Natalia Gudin, said: “This young team — Sean Kay and Angela Yang — they were so amazing. All the judges were so proud and they had such a big future.”
Cory Haynos was among several budding figure skating stars who died in the crash. 
Haynos, who trained at the Skating Club of Northern Virginia, was one of several athletes and coaches from the Washington area who died. His parents, Roger and Stephanie Haynos, died with him. 
The cousin of Roger, Matthew LaRaviere, said the family had been expecting Cory to represent the US at the next Olympics.
LaRaviere wrote on Facebook: “Roger and his wife died flying home with their son from the US Ice Skating Championships in Kansas. Cory was an amazing skater with a very bright future with the US Skating Team.”
He added: “We all were expecting Cory to represent our country in the US Olympics in the future.”
President Trump claimed diversity initiatives under previous Democratic presidents were a factor in the Washington air collision.
“I put safety first. Obama, Biden and the Democrats put policy first,” he said at a press conference on Thursday, the day after the crash that is thought to have killed all 67 people on board the two aircraft.
“They actually came out with a directive: ‘too white.’ And we want the people that are competent.”
The Times reconstructs a timeline of the collision in maps, videos and graphics

The US army helicopter reportedly deviated from its approved flight path, it has emerged.
The Black Hawk pilot asked air traffic control for permission to use a specific, predetermined route that lets helicopters fly no higher than 200 feet.
This route — referred to as Route 4 at Reagan international airport — hugs the east bank of the Potomac, which would have meant it avoided the American Airlines plane.
The helicopter pilot confirmed visual sight of the plane and the air traffic controller instructed the helicopter pilot to follow the route and go behind the plane.
But he did not follow the intended route, the New York Times reported, citing four people briefed on the matter said.
Rather, the helicopter was above 300 feet, not below 200 feet, and was at least half-a-mile off the approved route when it collided with the jet. 
A failure by pilots to perform the time-honoured method of “seeing and avoiding” other aircraft appears to lie behind the Washington crash, air traffic and data recordings show.
The pilots of the military UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter had confirmed to controllers that they had visually identified the American Airlines jet as they crossed its path and were avoiding it. 
They may have identified the wrong approaching airliner, according to initial speculation among pilots.

Ryan O’Hara was named as one of three soldiers on board the Black Hawk helicopter, as his father paid tribute to his “wonderful kid” on Friday morning.
O’Hara, the crew chief on the US army helicopter, had texted his father before the crash about a new assignment that might bring him, his wife and their one-year-old son back to Georgia later this year.
“He doted on that boy,” Gary O’Hara, Ryan’s father, told The Washington Post.
“As a parent, how do you take the news like this and not be totally broken?
“His mother and I and his sister are just absolutely devastated to think we were talking to him just yesterday and we’ll never have the opportunity to talk with him again.”
Gary O’Hara said the last pictures his son sent him were of a recent trip he took with his baby boy to the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles international airport. They were looking at helicopters.
The newly appointed US transport secretary has said he will reform the Federal Aviation Administration.
“I am in the process of developing an initial plan to fix the @FAANews. I hope to put it out very shortly,” Sean Duffy said on X.
He promised families who had lost loved ones that he would “get to the bottom of what happened and be 100 per cent transparent about the results of the investigation”.
He was due to visit the FAA command centre and recovery hangar on Friday.
President Trump, who has harshly criticised diversity efforts at the FAA, ordered an immediate assessment of aviation safety on Thursday.
Relatives and friends of the young ice skaters who died in the crash have expressed their shock at the tragedy.
Rachelle Chase Piro is the mother of a girl called Sienna who skated with several of the victims and was a pupil of one of the coaches, Inna Volyanskaya, 59, who died on Wednesday night.
She wrote: “My child lost a lot of people tonight on that plane … her coaches and all of her friends … this was her family.
“These kids were absolutely amazing. She had a bond with her coach that she will [not] find again. I don’t know if my child will ever skate again. I cannot imagine a world without these people in it. I’m sharing them so no one will forget them. Devastated is not even close to how we feel. This has to be a bad dream.”
Members of the historic Skating Club of Boston gathered on Thursday night to pay tribute to the athletes and their families killed in the collision.
Some of the club’s best known and most accomplished members and alumni travelled to the rink on Thursday.
Nancy Kerrigan, the Olympic figure skater, was there, and so was Dr Tenley E Albright, the first American woman to win an Olympic gold medal in figure skating.
“We came here because we needed to be together,” said Albright, 89, who was the Olympic figure skating champion in 1956.
“We’re family. It’s a community, and the people on that plane, they’re our family, too.”
“I can’t believe that it happened,” she added, turning to gesture toward the ice behind her, “because I picture them right here.”
Former Olympic figure skating medallist, Dorothy Hamill, has paid tribute to the figure skaters who lost their lives in the collision.
“It’s tragic. I knew the coaches, I skated with them, and the camp that the youngsters were attending … they’re the future,” Hamill said.
Hamill said that the crash was reminiscent of the 1961 plane crash, where all 18 members of the US figure skating team heading from New York to the World Championships in Prague crashed on approach to Brussels airport.
“These youngsters were our future of figure skating. So it’s going to take a long time to rebuild that,” the former Olympian added.
The US army pilot Andrew Eaves was also among the 67 victims.
Carrie Eaves, the wife of Andrew, confirmed he was on the helicopter in a Facebook post on Thursday night.
“We ask that you pray for our family and friends and for all the other families that are suffering today. We ask for peace while we grieve,” she wrote.
She also asked that people refrain from posting negative comments on social media.
“These families children do not need to suffer more pain,” she added.
Brielle Magdalena Beyer, 12-year-old figure skater from Virginia, and her mother, Justyna Magdalena Beyer, were among the 67 people killed when an American Airlines regional passenger jet and a US army Black Hawk helicopter collided mid-air on Wednesday evening.
They were in Wichita so 

, could sharpen her skills.
Andy Beyer, the father of Brielle and husband of Justyna, confirmed their deaths on Friday morning.
Paying tribute to the pair, Beyer told NBC News: “In everything she [Brielle] did, she lived life to the fullest, she was so proud of herself in figure skating,” Beyer said.
“She just had a passion for everything she did in life. She had a beautiful singing voice and I will miss that so much.”

The final location of the UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter involved in the deadly collision on Wednesday night indicated that it was flying too high above its approved route. 
The permitted flight ceiling on the Potomac River near Reagan National Airport is 200 feet.
This is a crucial for keeping the heavy flow of military helicopters safely clear of the steady commercial aircraft traffic into and out of Washington. 
Data from FlightRadar24 showed the helicopter’s last estimated altitude was about 400 feet when it 

.
“They’re military pilots; they’re familiar with the routes,” said Greg Feith, a former senior air safety investigator with the National Transportation Safety Board.
He added: “Why is it on this day, on that flight, they were [as much as] 150 to 200 feet higher than they knew they should be?”

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
