




The Guardian (London)
January 31, 2025 Friday 2:28 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:42
Length: 14352 words
Byline: Lois Beckett (now); Anna Betts, Maya Yang, Amy Sedghi and Kate Lamb (earlier)
Highlight: This live blog is now closed. For the latest on the DC plane crash, read our full report: ‘Black box’ from helicopter involved in Washington plane crash recovered
Body


block-time published-time 11.16pm GMT 
 Closing summary  
As the investigation into Wednesday night’s deadly collision between a commercial plane and a Black Hawk military helicopter continues, here’s what we know: 
More than   so far, of 67 people lost, officials said. The recovery efforts in the frigid Potomac River have been challenging, and will continue over the next few days. More of the victims have been identified by their family members and friends, including a  ,  , a law professor,  , two  , a  ,  , the  , and . The FAA and Trump’s newly appointed secretary of transportation announced that helicopter flights in the vicinity of Ronald Reagan airport would be temporarily restricted, with some exceptions for active law enforcement and emergency flights and Marine One, the president’s helicopter. The army identified two of the three soldiers on the Black Hawk helicopter who were killed in the collision, as Staff Sgt. Ryan Austin O’Hara, 28, of Lilburn, Georgia, and Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Loyd Eaves, 39, of Great Mills, Maryland, but said they were not immediately releasing the name of the third crew member on board the helicopter, at the request of the family, in what some news outlets said was a “highly unusual” choice. The “black boxes” from both American Airlines flight 5342 and the military helicopter have been recovered and will be analyzed, a National Transportation Safety Board member said on Friday evening, noting that the cockpit voice recorder from the commercial flight appeared to have sustained some water damage. President Donald Trump   helicopter involved in the crash was flying above the 200 foot limit, despite officials still investigating. 
A White House spokesperson defended his post. The father of one of the Black Hawk crew members killed in the crash criticized president Trump’s comments on Thursday blaming “DEI” for the tragedy, and said that no one in the army flies a helicopter without being highly qualified. There are now over 100 family members of the crash victims in the Washington area receiving briefings from officials, a NTSB official said. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.42pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.00pm GMT 
 NTSB board member emphasizes investigation is ‘nonpartisan’  
Asked about the political dimension of the emergency response, and whether board members had been hearing directly from the White House Inman emphasized that the NTSB was a “nonpartisan” group and said their sole focus was making sure a tragedy like this never happens again.
“I never want to have to brief another set of families like that,” Inman said, and ended the press conference, as reporters continued shouting questions at him.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.04pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.58pm GMT 
 NTSB: investigation will look closely at air traffic controllers  
The investigation into the fatal crash will involve intense scrutiny of every air traffic controller involved in the incident, which will likely include a review of everything those air traffic controllers had done in the previous 72 hours before the incident, or perhaps even weeks beforehand, Todd Inman, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board, said at a press briefing on Friday evening in Washington.
“We’ll look at their training, their hiring, everything, what they probably ate that day,” Inman said.
The air traffic controller who was working at the time “has been interviewed” and those interviews are “ongoing”, he said.
But the investigation will also examine a wide range of other potential contributing factors, like weather, staffing levels, or construction in various parts of the airport, he said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.04pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.49pm GMT 
 NTSB has recovered 'black box' data recorder from Black Hawk helicopter  
The National Transportation Safety Board has recovered the flight “black box” from the downed Black Hawk helicopter, that appears to be undamaged, board member Todd Inman said. 
Yesterday, the NTSB has recovered a flight data recorder “in good condition” from the accident, he said, though it will not be releasing information from that device immediately. The cockpit voice recorder that was recovered, in contrast, had “water intrusion,” a problem that investigators are now dealing with, but they have “a very high level of confidence” that they will get information from that device, Inman said. 
Air Traffic Control has been conducting interviews with the relevant witnesses today, and will continue those interviews through tonight and into the coming days, he said. 
Barges are en route from Virginia Beach to assist in the salvage operation tomorrow morning and recover the downed aircraft. Emergency responders will be working closely with DC medical examiner’s office to ensure that the bodies of victims are also recovered and identified, Inman said. 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.56pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.41pm GMT 
 There are now over 100 family members of the crash victims in the Washington area receiving briefings, Todd Inman of the National Transportation Safety Board said. 
block-time published-time 10.39pm GMT 
Todd Inman, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board, is now briefing the public on updates in Wednesday night’s aviation crash.
Inman said he had spent the last several hours with the family members of the dozens of people killed in the crash, who are having a very difficult time, he said.
Inman role now includes fact-finding and making sure a tragedy like this “never happens again”, he said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.52pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.37pm GMT 
 Father of Black Hawk crew member killed in crash criticizes Trump  
Gary O’Hara, whose son Ryan O’Hara was one of the Black Hawk pilots killed after the helicopter collided with a commercial airline, has spoken out about his son’s love for his work, and the pain of hearing Donald Trump blame the tragedy on “DEI”.
“You have to earn your spot to be moved into the ladder to be put into that helicopter. They don’t just give it to you. You earn it,” .  “And you know, all of those soldiers that protect us, they earn their stripes every single day.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.54pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.21pm GMT 
 A news briefing from the National Transportation Safety Board will happen soon. 
The briefing is expected in about 10 minutes, and can be . 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.18pm GMT 
A transgender woman who serves as a helicopter pilot in the Virginia air national guard was   as the pilot of the downed Black Hawk plane, the New York Times reported. The false identification reportedly sparked tens of thousands of posts and hundreds of thousands of views on X, a social media platform owned by Trump ally Elon Musk.
The pilot, who released her own social media video about the false claims, called them “insulting to the families” and said: “They don’t deserve that. I don’t deserve this.” She did not immediately respond to a request for comment from the New York Times.
As political attacks on transgender people in the US have escalated in the past four years, one common form of public harassment is falsely blaming a trans person for having a role in a particular tragedy.
In late 2024, NBC news   as “a trend on the conservative internet that now plays out after many high-profile crimes: people hunt for clues to try to connect a given crime to transgender people, or they jump to the conclusion that a suspect is transgender regardless of whether evidence points that way or is relevant to the crime.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.11pm GMT 
 ‘Highly unusual:’ one person who died onboard helicopter not named  
Earlier today, the army released the names of two of the soldiers who were onboard the Black Hawk helicopter that collided with a commercial airliner near Reagan airport on Wednesday night.
But the army did not immediately release the name of the third soldier who died on the helicopter, saying it was withholding the name . 
The New York Times called the choice not to release the third soldier’s name “an extraordinary step,” and “   ” noting that “typically, the names of service members killed during a peacetime accident or in combat zones are made public about 24 hours after their relatives have been notified”.
The Times and other outlets have reported that the third, not-yet-identified soldier is a woman.
On Thursday, 6ABC Action News and other outlets cited an official spokesperson, Jonathan Koziol, a retired army chief warrant officer, who described the Black Hawk helicopter crew as a “   ” of pilots.
“Koziol confirmed to reporters on a conference call that the male instructor pilot had more than 1,000 hours of flight time, the female pilot who was commanding the flight at the time had more than 500 hours of flight time, and the crew chief was also said to have hundreds of hours of flight time,” 6ABC Action News reported.
The Black Hawk crew was on a routine night-time qualification flight, an annual exam in which an instructor pilot tests another pilot’s skills in navigating the Washington area, Koziol told the news outlets.
Divisive comments from Donald Trump and his top officials, who have blamed the crash on past diversity efforts within the Federal Aviation Authority without offering any specifics, have put an additional spotlight on the identities of the pilots and the air traffic controllers involved in the crash.
 Pete Hegseth, the former Fox News television host who is now Trump’s secretary of defense, said in interviews just months before his confirmation that he   in military combat roles.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.18pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.27pm GMT 
The Associated Press has   on the previously announced temporary restrictions on helicopter flights near Reagan National airport:
The area over the Potomac River and near the airport is now off-limits to most helicopters to ensure safety in the aftermath of the crash, the FAA said.
The exceptions include emergency medical helicopters, active law enforcement and air defense. The presidential helicopter Marine One is also exempt.
The restrictions are expected to continue at least until the National Transportation Safety Board finishes its preliminary report, expected within 30 days.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.15pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.21pm GMT 
 Efforts to recover bodies of victims ‘heartbreaking’ work – fire chief  
The Potomac River is a grim place today, as emergency responders continued to search for the bodies of more than two dozen people who have not yet been recovered.
“This is heartbreaking work,” Washington  DC fire chief John Donnelly said at a press conference earlier today, according to the Associated Press, noting that more than 300 responders were taking part in the effort at any one time, including teams of divers and two US coast guard cutters, at least one of which carries a crane. “It’s been a tough response for a lot of our people.”
The Associated Press also   Dean Naujoks, who routinely patrols the Potomac for the environmental group Waterkeeper Alliance, and who had permission to be out on the river on Thursday.
Naujoks said he saw wreckage in the river that included pages from a flight manual, part of the plane’s cabin wall, a woman’s sweater, dozens of sugar packets with the American Airlines logo and what appeared to be the cushion from a pilot’s seat.
“Everything is covered in jet fuel,” Naujoks said on Friday. “The sugar packets made me think of the flight attendants. I’m thinking of the people these things belonged to and it’s a punch to the gut. It’s just a sad day on the river.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.15pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.43pm GMT 
 Eric Adams, New York’s mayor, announces that a 28-year-old New Yorker was one of the 67 victims on the flight. 
In a   Adams said that on Friday, he learned that “one of the 67 victims of the heartbreaking crash on Wednesday was a fellow New Yorker, Melissa Jane Nicandri.”
“At just 28 years old, her life was tragically cut short” he said. “My heart and my prayers go out to her loved ones.”
Her family said that she was returning from a work trip in Kansas, and was connecting through Reagan.
Her mother told   that “she was an amazing woman, she was an amazing girl and had so much going for her”.
She lived in Brooklyn Heights, her mother said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.47pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.36pm GMT 
 Sean Duffy, the US transportation secretary, has confirmed that effective today, the Federal Aviation Administration will restrict helicopter traffic around Ronald Reagan Washington National  airport. 
“Today’s decision will immediately help secure the airspace near Reagan airport, ensuring the safety of airplane and helicopter traffic,” Duffy   adding that this is part of the US Department of Transportation’s “ongoing commitment to safeguarding our nation’s skies and upholding the highest standards of air travel safety”.
“The American people deserve full confidence in our aviation system and today’s action is a significant step towards restoring that trust” he said.
The restricted area includes Memorial Bridge to South Capitol Street Bridge, excluding the Tidal Basin, Haines Point to Wilson Bridge and over the top of DCA, he added.
Duffy said that the decision was made with the support of Donald Trump and in consultation with secretary of defense, Pete Hegseth.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.48pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.32pm GMT 
 The US army has released the names of two of the three soldiers killed in Wednesday’s midair collision, but withholds the name of the third at the family’s request. 
The army   two of the soldiers killed was staff sergeant Ryan Austin O’Hara, 28, of Lilburn, Georgia, and chief warrant officer Andrew Loyd Eaves, 39, of Great Mills, Maryland.
“At the request of the family, the name of the third soldier will not be released at this time,” an army statement said.
Eaves served in the US navy from August 2007 to September 2017 before transitioning to a Black Hawk pilot for the army in September of 2017. His remains have not yet been recovered.
O’Hara began serving as Black Hawk helicopter mechanic in July 2014, and was deployed to Afghanistan from March 2017 to August 2017.
Both soldiers have received 
“Our deepest condolences go out to all the families and friends impacted during this tragedy, and we will support them through this difficult time,” Maj Gen Trevor J Bredenkamp, said in a statement.
“Our top priority is to assist in the recovery efforts, while fully cooperating with the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and other investigative agencies to determine the cause of this tragic incident,” he added.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.23pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.20pm GMT 
 The unified command has activated peer support for first responders, DC officials   on Friday. 
The World Central Kitchen’s relief team and many other local restaurants have also provided meals and snacks to first responders, officials said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.24pm GMT
block-time published-time 8.18pm GMT 
 FAA shuts down all low-altitude helicopter flights near DCA airport indefinitely  
 Senator Jerry Moran of Kansas has confirmed that the Federal Aviation Administration has shut down all low-altitude helicopter flights near Ronald Reagan airport indefinitely. 
In a statement, Moran, who is on the Senate subcommittee on aviation operations, safety and security,   that the FAA “has indefinitely shut down all low-altitude helicopter flights near DCA”.
“The FAA was right to take this action, and I expect these restrictions to be in effect until investigations are complete,” he added.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.24pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.56pm GMT 
 In response to a question on whether he is confident on where the other passengers’ remains are, John Donnelly said:  “It couples with the question about removing the aircraft. I believe that when we remove the aircraft that that will help us resolve this … If it doesn’t, we will continue the search.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.24pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.51pm GMT 
 Officials believe remaining victims will be recovered once fuselage is out of water  
 In response to a question on whether he believes authorities will have to lift the rest of the aircraft out of the water to recover the remains of the rest of the passengers, John Donnelly said:  “Yes, I believe for us to recover the rest of the remains, that we are going to need to get the fuselage out of the water.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.25pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.47pm GMT 
 Officials unable to say when aircraft will be fully salvaged  
 In response to a question on how long authorities believe it will take the salvage the aircraft’s remain on the water, Donnelly said:  “So we’re working as fast as we can. I’m not going to be able to give a timeline on that, as there’s a lot of unknowns.”
He added that more salvage equipment will arrive on site on Saturday.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.25pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.43pm GMT 
 Washington DC fire chief says 41 victims recovered, with 28 identified  
 John Donnelly, chief of Washington DC Fire and EMS, is now speaking. 
Forty-one victims have been recovered and 28 of them have been positively identified, he said.
He added: “Our dive teams are working in targeted areas, and additional Coast Guard assets will arrive this afternoon. The salvage crews have begun to arrive on the scene, and they’re assessing the work that’s going to be needed to recover the aircraft from the water.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.25pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.40pm GMT 
 Terry Liercke of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority is delivering an update right now on the collision. 
He said: “We are in a reduced capacity and a reduced arrival rate due to the proximity of the recovery site. We do have two of our three runways that are closed. So as always, we do want to encourage passengers to reach out to their airlines for any potential flight delays.
“Typically, a full schedule here at [Ronald Reagan] National airport would encompass about 800 flights a day using those three runways. We’ve had several obviously, cancelations yesterday. Airlines are resuming as much as possible normal operations. I think we have about 100 flights or so canceled today.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.26pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.21pm GMT 
 Here are some images coming through the newswires of recovery efforts currently under way in the Potomac River and from around Ronald Reagan National Airport: 
block-time published-time 6.49pm GMT 
 Washington officials to give update on recovery efforts  
 In a recent statement, the Washington DC Fire and EMS Department says that with assistance from regional and federal partners, their response teams remain focused on recovery efforts in the Potomac River. 
They will be   to the public at a news conference at 2.30pm ET.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.26pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.47pm GMT 
 When asked about Donald Trump’s behavior during the press briefing yesterday, where he used a expletive and condemned the previous administration, Karoline Leavitt said that he was expressing frustration “perhaps even anger” with the previous administration policies. 
“I think one of the things that the American people love most about this president is that he often says what they are thinking, but sometimes lack the courage to say themselves,” Leavitt said.
“And I think yesterday at this podium, you heard President Trump express great frustration, perhaps even anger, with the previous administration’s policies, many of which have led to the crises that our country is currently facing,” she added.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.27pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.39pm GMT 
 Karoline Leavitt says that the White House is continuing to mourn the victims of the collision and their families and friends. 
“Everyone in this White House continues to mourn the victims and keep their friends and families in our thoughts and prayers during this unimaginable time,” she said, adding that the president is continuing to receive updates as recovery efforts continue on the ground.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.28pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.34pm GMT 
 Maryland's governor criticizes Trump response to collision  
 Maryland governor Wes Moore, a Democrat, has criticized Donald Trump’s response to the plane crash. 
“We have a sitting president of the United States blame it on DEI less than 24 hours after the crisis,” Moore said on Friday, while addressing the Democratic National Committee’s winter meeting outside Washington, according to   shared by the Maryland Democratic party.
“When a journalist asked if he would visit the site of the catastrophe, the president suggested that he wasn’t interested in going swimming,” he added.
“When this country needed comfort, we got chaos,” Moore said. “When this country needed healing, we got hatred.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.29pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.31pm GMT 
 Leavitt claims Trump's DEI termination will increase hiring at FAA  
Leavitt said that President Trump is “intent on ensuring that we are increasing staffing at these agencies” such as the FAA.
“That’s why he signed a very strong executive order on his second day in office, immediately terminating DEI hiring practices at the FAA,” she added.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.28pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.27pm GMT 
 Leavitt defends Trump's claim about the army helicopter flying too high  
Leavitt added that Trump based his statement on Truth Social on “truth, because it’s truth and fact”.
She added that it was “relayed to him by the authorities who are overseeing the investigation.”
We reported   today that Trump wrote in a   :
The Blackhawk helicopter was flying too high, by a lot. It was far above the 200 foot limit. That’s not really too complicated to understand, is it???
It is unusual for a president to weigh in like this, especially on social media, and suggest the cause of the collision, when officials have not yet revealed the cause of the deadly collision and the crash remains under investigation by federal transportation authorities.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.29pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.19pm GMT 
 Karoline Leavitt, the White House press secretary, has defended Donald Trump’s post on social media this morning, where he said that the military helicopter flying was too high, despite officials still investigating. 
“The president is simply stating what he said, which is that the helicopter was flying higher than it should have been, which is one of the reasons that led to this collision,” Leavitt said during the press briefing. “And the other reasons for that are still being investigated.”
Leavitt also said that the president believes that it is safe to fly and that Americans should feel safe to fly.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.29pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.08pm GMT 
 White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt is holding a press briefing. 
Stay tuned for updates.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.30pm GMT
block-time published-time 6.01pm GMT 
 The flight number of the American Eagle jet that collided with the military helicopter is being retired, according to .  
The outlet reported that American Airlines has announced that the flight number, 5342, will be retired.
NBC reports that it is a common for flight numbers to be retired after major aviation accidents.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.30pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.50pm GMT 
 The University of Delaware has announced that figure skating coach, Sasha Kirsanov, was onboard the flight on Wednesday. 
A   from the school reads: “At this time, we are aware that Sasha Kirsanov, a former coach of the UD Figure Skating Club, was on the airplane.”
The university believes that Kirsanov was traveling with two young skaters who were not university students but were members of the University of Delaware Figure Skating Club.
It is not known yet whether the young skaters were accompanied by their parents or other chaperones, according to the statement.
“Kirsanov and the skaters trained at the University’s High Performance Training Center, which uses UD ice rink facilities and has been the training home for many years of multiple world-class skating champions and competitors” the school said. “The figure skating community is tight-knit, and many of our students and coaches have trained and competed alongside those who were lost.”
Chrissi Rawak, the school’s athletic director   that Kirsanov’s “presence was felt deeply in our ice arenas, where he devoted countless hours to the UD Figure Skating Club”.
“His dedication forged meaningful connections throughout the UD family,” Rawak said, adding that his “passion and commitment touched many lives, leaving a permanent mark on our campus.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.30pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.38pm GMT 
 Summary: more victims named as recovery continues  More than  , officials said.More of the victims have been identified by their family members and friends, including a  ,  , a law professor,  , two  , a  ,  , the  , and . President Donald Trump   helicopter involved in the crash was flying above the 200 foot limit, despite officials still investigating.Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said that the black boxes onboard the Black Hawk helicopter have not yet been recovered.National Transportation Safety Board member Todd Inman said today that the teams will continue their efforts in the field.Staffing levels were ‘not normal’ in control tower at time of Washington DC crash, report says.The National Transportation Safety Board said it will have preliminary report into disaster within 30 days.The US Federal Aviation Administration is reportedly restricting helicopter flights near Washington Reagan National Airport indefinitely, a FAA official reportedly told Reuters.The President of National Air Traffic Controllers Association   behind “every highly skilled, highly trained air traffic controller that is out there.”Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport   normally today.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.57pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.56pm GMT 
 Trump accused of 'exploiting disaster' with crash comments  
 Illinois congressman Jesús García, a Democrat, has accused Donald Trump of “exploiting disaster” in an interview. 
Speaking   García accused Trump of “exploiting disaster to continue to spread racist lies and divisiveness across the country, simply to score political points with his base”.
“We don’t know what occurred and whether it was human error that caused this flight or other factors,” García said. “That is what we will learn. And once we have the facts and recommendations, our subcommittee on aviation will be prepared to act.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.31pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.50pm GMT 
 Ronald Reagan airport is open and “operating normally today”, the airport .  
“Passengers are encouraged to check with their airlines for delays or cancellations,” it added.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.31pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.45pm GMT 
 Ohio university student reportedly among victims  
 A Cedarville University student has been identified as another one of the passengers on the flight, the university said. 
Thomas White, the president of Cedarville University in Ohio, told reporters that Grace Maxwell was on the flight after attending her grandfather’s funeral, according to . 
“You know, I talked to her dad. I said, ‘What can we do?’” White said. “There’s no words that make this OK. There’s nothing that makes this easier. I can’t say anything that takes away your hurt or your pain.”
Maxwell was a junior majoring in mechanical engineering, the university said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.32pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.21pm GMT 
 Filipino national Pergentino N Malabed named as passenger  
 The  Philippine National Police  has   Col Pergentino N Malabed, chief of the supply management division, as one of the passengers who was on board the American Airlines flight. 
In a statement on Facebook, the Philippine National Police said:
The Philippine National Police mourns the tragic loss of Police Colonel Pergentino N Malabed, Chief of the Supply Management Division, who was among those on board the American Airlines flight that collided midair with a US Army Black Hawk helicopter near Reagan National Airport in Washington, DC, and crashed into the Potomac River on Wednesday night.
PCOL Malabed was on official travel at the time of the incident, fulfilling his duty as a dedicated police officer – committed to the service of protecting and securing both the PNP and the nation. His untimely passing is a profound loss to the PNP, where he served with honor, integrity, and dedication throughout his career.
We extend our deepest condolences to his bereaved family, loved ones, and colleagues. The PNP is committed to providing them with all necessary support during this difficult time
As we grieve this tragic event, we also honor the dedication and sacrifice of PCOL Malabed. His contributions to the PNP and the nation will never be forgotten.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.32pm GMT
block-time published-time 4.02pm GMT 
 Teaching union leader Lindsay Fields among victims, says NABT  
 The National Association of Biology Teachers reported that NABT president-elect Lindsey (Carter) Fields was onboard the American Airlines plane which collided with the US army helicopter on Wednesday. 
In a   on Facebook, the NABT said:
“Lindsey was traveling to represent the NABT community and advocate for excellence in life science education
This is a tremendous loss. Please keep Lindsey, the other victims, and their families in your hearts. We also ask that you respect the privacy of her loved ones at this time.
We will share more information as it becomes available.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.33pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.42pm GMT 
 Here are some images coming through the newswires of recovery efforts currently under way in the Potomac River and from around Ronald Reagan National Airport: 
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.34pm GMT
block-time published-time 3.18pm GMT 
 President of National Air Traffic Controllers Association says that he stands behind “every highly skilled, highly trained air traffic controller that is out there.” 
In an interview with   this morning, Nick Daniels, the president of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, outlined the many tests and trainings required for the job, and said that any certified air traffic controller out there “it doesn’t matter their race, color, religion , you can know you are in the best hands that take that responsibility very seriously everyday.”
Daniels’ remarks come as President Donald Trump said yesterday that DEI initiatives at the Federal Aviation Administration have lowered the quality and talent of air traffic controllers.
In response, Daniels said, “I couldn’t tell you exactly what he was talking about because the quality of air traffic controllers out there is outstanding.”
block-time published-time 3.00pm GMT 
 GE Aerospace says employee Vikesh Patel was on the plane  
 A GE Aerospace employee has been identified as another passenger who was on the flight on Wednesday. 
In a statement, the company   that “this is a tragedy not only for our industry, but also for the GE Aerospace team as one of our cherished colleagues was onboard the flight” adding, “our hearts are with all the families impacted by this horrific accident.”
In a statement to  , Larry Culp, chairman and CEO of GE Aerospace, identified the employee as Vikesh Patel. 
According to his LinkedIn, Patel has worked at GE Aerospace for over 11 years.
GE Aerospace is an American aircraft engine supplier.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.59pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.49pm GMT 
 Divers will help the National Transportation Safety Board today to conduct additional searches to locate aircraft components, support the investigation, and “begin operations to salvage the aircraft” at he Washington DC fire and EMS department .  
Overnight last night, boats remained on the scene for “security and surface searches from local, state, and federal regional partners” the department said. 
block-time published-time 2.45pm GMT 
 US aviation authority restricts helicopter flights near Reagan National airport indefinitely  
 The US Federal Aviation Administration is reportedly restricting helicopter flights near Washington Reagan National Airport indefinitely, a FAA official reportedly told Reuters. 
The official, who was not named, reportedly told the news outlet that the agency was barring most helicopters from parts of two helicopter routes near the airport and only allowing police and medical helicopters in the area between the airport and nearby bridges.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.48pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.31pm GMT 
 A family friend has   of two young figure skaters, Everly Livingston, 14, and her 11-year-old sister, Alydia, along with their two parents, Donna and Peter.  
“The Livingstons were just – they were just a big personality family” family friend Kim Urban, whose children had skated with Everly and Alydia for years, told .  “They were loving, they were thoughtful.”
Urban described Donna and Peter as “extraordinarily supportive” and “loving parents” who “were doing anything for their children.”
“Alydia and Everly were bright children, very talented skaters and super bubbly” Urban added. 
block-time published-time 2.28pm GMT 
 More than 40 bodies recovered from Potomac River  
 More than 40 bodies have been recovered from the Potomac River, a law enforcement official reportedly told the .  
This comes as the recovery effort continued on Friday. 
The Associated Press said that the official spoke on condition of anonymity as they were not authorized to discuss details of the investigation.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.33pm GMT
block-time published-time 2.25pm GMT 
 National Transportation Safety Board member Todd Inman said today that the teams will continue their efforts in the field.  
Inman told   on Friday that obtaining and preserving any perishable evidence is the top priority right now, “so that whenever we come off scene, we can start the analyzation of it.”
He shared that organizational meetings were held yesterday, with another planned for this morning and said that teams are currently in the field. 
“Today will be yet another day of the teams going out there” he said. “They’re out in the field. They’re collecting data. They’ve started interviews.”
“We have hundreds of people in this investigation” he added. 
block-time published-time 1.55pm GMT 
 Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said this morning that the black boxes onboard the Black Hawk helicopter have not yet been recovered. 
“That might tell us exactly who was piloting that Black Hawk” He told   this morning, and what, “if any confusion was there at the end.”
“Someone was at the wrong altitude” Hegseth added. “The investigation will help us understand that. Was the BlackHawk too high, was it on course? Right now we don’t know.”
block-time published-time 1.34pm GMT 
 The government of the city of Alexandria, which is within sight of Reagan National airport, released a statement   of “a significant increase in traffic” along the waterfront and potential debris in the area as a result of the ongoing recovery efforts. 
In a statement, the officials added that they “understand the curiosity and concerns residents may have. We strongly encourage visitors to the waterfront to not touch or collect anything you believe may be related to this incident.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.47pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.27pm GMT 
 Trump claims army helicopter was flying too high despite officials still investigating  
 President Donald Trump said this morning that the military helicopter involved in the crash in Washington, DC, was flying too high at the time of the accident that killed 67 people. 
In a   Trump wrote:
The Blackhawk helicopter was flying too high, by a lot. It was far above the 200 foot limit. That’s not really too complicated to understand, is it???
It is unusual for a President to weigh in like this, especially on social media, and suggest the cause of the collision, when officials have not yet revealed the cause of the deadly collision and the crash remains under investigation by federal transportation authorities.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.53pm GMT
block-time published-time 1.22pm GMT 
 A daughter has said that her parents, Lori Schrock, 56, and Robert “Bob” Schrock, 58, were among the casualties in the American Airlines collision. 
The Shrocks lived in Kansas, where Bob worked as a farmer, according to NBC News.
Their daughter, Ellie, a junior at Villanova University in Philadelphia, told the Washington Post that her parents were traveling to Washington to see her.
block-time published-time 12.54pm GMT 
 Summary of the day so far  
Here is a brief summary of the latest developments:
Rescue crews are expected to return to Potomac River on Friday as they continue to search for the victims of the collision between the American Airlines flight and US army Black Hawk helicopter. So far, at least 27 bodies have been recovered from the plane and one from the helicopter  which crashed into the river.Investigators plan to push forward today with efforts to retrieve the two aircraft involved in the crash. Fresh from recovering the so-called black boxes from the American Airlines plane that crashed into the Potomac River after colliding with an army Black Hawk helicopter on Wednesday, divers aim to “salvage the aircraft” and find additional components on Friday, Washington’s fire department said.The National Transportation Safety Board is studying the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder  from the CRJ700 airplane, and  is expected to provide a preliminary report in 30 days.An initial Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) report obtained by US media organisations said staffing levels were “not normal for the time of day and volume of traffic” before a military helicopter collided with a passenger jet in the heart of .   According to the report, the separate roles of coordinating helicopter traffic and arriving and departing planes had been combined when the collision happened, the Associated Press reported. The Washington Post said two people were handling the jobs of four inside the control tower.“Our hearts break for the families who lost loved ones in the tragic plane and helicopter crash at DCA,” former president Barack Obama   “Michelle and I send our prayers and condolences to everyone who is mourning today, and we’re grateful to the first responders who are doing everything they can to help under extremely difficult circumstances.”Public officials and aviation experts are resurfacing concerns about how   the airspace is around Washington DC.  On Thursday, during his confirmation hearing before the Senate armed services committee, Daniel Driscoll, Donald Trump’s nominee for secretary of the army, questioned why military helicopters need to conduct training exercises near such a busy commercial airport. Driscoll told lawmakers that the incident seemed “preventable” and vowed to review army practices.Senator Maria Cantwell, the top Democrat on the Senate commerce committee, questioned the safety of military and commercial flights separated by as little as 350ft (107 meters) vertically and horizontally.  She also urged the government to reconsider allowing so many helicopter flights next to such a busy airport.The BBC reports that the identities of two of the three people onboard the Black Hawk helicopter involved in the Washington DC collision have been named. It added that the identity of the third person is not yet known. According to the British public broadcaster, the pilot has been named as Andrew Eaves by his wife, Carrie. Mississippi governor, Tate Reeves, also shared a message on X naming Eaves. Ryan O’Hara, 29, was the crew chief of the Black Hawk helicopter, reports the BBC, citing CBS News.A GE Aerospace employee was onboard the American Airlines passenger jet that collided with a and the US army Black Hawk helicopter near Washington DC on Wednesday night, the company’s CEO has said. In a post on X yesterday, GE Aerospace CEO Larry Culp, who did not name the employee, said: “This is a tragedy not only for our industry but also for the GE Aerospace team as one of our cherished colleagues was onboard the flight.”Two lawyers, Sarah Lee Best and Elizabeth Anne Keys, were among those onboard the American Airlines flight, their lawfirm and families have confirmed in statements reported by CNN and other media.US transportation secretary, Sean Duffy, said late on Thursday he will soon announce a plan to reform the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) after a devastating collision between an American Airlines regional plane and an army helicopter killed 67 people. “I am in the process of developing an initial plan to fix the @FAANews. I hope to put it out very shortly,” Duffy said on X.
You can also find a helpful explainer of what we know so far about the fatal aviation incident in Washington DC here:
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.57pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.33pm GMT 
 Staffing levels ‘not normal’ in control tower at time of Washington DC crash, report says  
An initial Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) report obtained by US media organisations said staffing levels were “not normal for the time of day and volume of traffic” before a military helicopter collided with a passenger jet in the heart of    .
According to the report, the separate roles of coordinating helicopter traffic and arriving and departing planes had been combined when the collision happened, the Associated Press reported. The Washington Post said two people were handling the jobs of four inside the control tower.
The cause of the crash remains unclear. Investigators have   from American Eagle flight 5342, an American Airlines flight operated by PSA, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) said late on Thursday. The recorders are now at the NTSB’s labs for evaluation. Todd Inman, a board member, said officials aimed to release a preliminary report on the incident within 30 days.
A person familiar with the matter told the Associated Press that the positions handling helicopters and planes are regularly combined when controllers need to step away from the console for breaks, are in the process of a shift change or air traffic is slow. Speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss internal procedures, the person said the staffing situation on Wednesday night was at a normal level.
But the initial FAA report, obtained by the New York Times, the Associated Press and others, concludes differently, saying that the staffing was “not normal” either for the time of day or the amount of air traffic over the city, which has more than 100 helicopters a day on average.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 12.21pm GMT 
 Rescue crews to return to Potomac River to continue search  
Rescue crews are expected to return to Potomac River  this morning as they continue to search for the victims of the collision between the American Airlines flight and US army Black Hawk helicopter. So far, at least 27 bodies have been recovered from the plane and one from the helicopter which crashed into the river.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.43pm GMT
block-time published-time 12.01pm GMT 
 Two of three people onboard helicopter involved in crash named – report  
The BBC reports that the identities of two of the three people onboard the Black Hawk helicopter involved in the Washington DC collision have been named. It added that the identity of the third person is not yet known.
According to the British public broadcaster, the pilot has been named as Andrew Eaves by his wife, Carrie.
The Mississippi governor, Tate Reeves, also shared the following message on X naming Eaves:
Mississippi is mourning the loss of Brooksville native chief warrant officer 2 Andrew Eaves, who was killed in last night’s accident at Reagan National airport. Elee and I are praying for the victims’ families and first responders who are assisting.
 Ryan O’Hara, 29, was the crew chief of the Black Hawk helicopter, reports the BBC, citing CBS News.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.34pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.51am GMT 
A GE Aerospace employee was onboard the American Airlines passenger jet that collided with a and the US army Black Hawk helicopter  near Washington DC on Wednesday night, the company’s CEO has said.
In a post on X yesterday, GE Aerospace CEO Larry Culp, who did not name the employee, said:
This is a tragedy not only for our industry but also for the GE Aerospace team as one of our cherished colleagues was onboard the flight.
Our hearts are with his family and all those impacted by this horrific accident.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.44pm GMT
block-time published-time 11.16am GMT 
Here are some graphics from the Guardian’s team showing the flight paths of the American Airlines passenger jet and the US army Black Hawk helicopter :
  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.35pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.54am GMT 
Federal lawmakers from Virginia and Maryland also issued warnings about the excessive number of aircraft flying near each other over the country’s capital.
But last year, a bipartisan body of congressional officials approved the addition of 10 additional commercial flights into DCA (the airport code of Reagan National airport) over their objections.
“As we have said countless times before, DCA’s runway is already the busiest in the country,” Virginia US senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine and Maryland senator Chris Van Hollen and then senator Ben Cardin, all Democrats, said in   months before the law was passed. “Forcing the airport to cram additional flights in its already crowded schedule will further strain its resources at a time when air traffic controllers are overburdened and exhausted, working 10-hour days, six days a week.”
The group of lawmakers filed an amendment to the proposal to block the increased flights into Reagan, but the original bill   that May despite their protests. The bill, Texas senator Ted Cruz   at the time, “ultimately gives the FAA the stability it needs to fulfil its primary mission – advancing aviation safety – while also making travel more convenient and accessible”.
Weeks after the bill passed, the lawmakers’ fears were nearly proved. Air traffic controllers cancelled the takeoff of one American Airlines plane speeding down a runway   attempted to land on an intersecting airstrip.
In a   after Wednesday’s fatal crash, Maj Gen Trevor Bredenkamp, a commander in the army National Capital Region, said its investigation is ongoing and will be conducted in conjunction with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.36pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.33am GMT 
 US president Donald Trump suggested that efforts to increase diversity at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) could have been a cause in the crash. At a White House press conference on Thursday, he harshly criticised Pete Buttigieg, who headed the transportation department under president Joe Biden, saying, “he’s a disaster … He’s run it right into the ground with his diversity.”
Buttigieg criticised Trump on social media, calling his comments “despicable”, reports Reuters.
“As families grieve, Trump should be leading, not lying. We put safety first, drove down close calls, grew air traffic control, and had zero commercial airline crash fatalities out of millions of flights on our watch,” Buttigieg said.
Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer, also criticised Trump’s comments. “It’s one thing for internet pundits to spew off conspiracies, it’s another for the president of the United States to throw out idle speculation as bodies are still being recovered,” Schumer said.
Former aides to Buttigieg say the diversity policy cited by Trump had been a longstanding policy and was in effect during Trump’s first term. Buttigieg could not immediately be reached for comment, reports Reuters.
“I am not blaming the controller,” Trump added. He said he did not know if diversity was to blame but vowed to investigate. “So we don’t know, but we do know that you had two planes at the same level. You had a helicopter and a plane. That shouldn’t have happened.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.36pm GMT
block-time published-time 10.06am GMT 
 The US transportation secretary, Sean Duffy, said late on Thursday he will soon announce a plan to reform the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) after a devastating collision between an American Airlines regional plane and an army helicopter killed 67 people.
“I am in the process of developing an initial plan to fix the @FAANews. I hope to put it out very shortly,” Duffy said on X.
 Donald Trump who has harshly criticised diversity efforts at the FAA, directed an immediate assessment of aviation safety on Thursday, reports Reuters.
Earlier, Trump said he had appointed a former senior aviation official as the acting head of the FAA – just one day after the deadliest US air disaster in more than 20 years.
 Chris Rocheleau, a US air force veteran who worked at the FAA for more than 20 years, was previously chief operating officer of the National Business Aviation Association. Reuters reports that sources said Liam McKenna, who was the counsel to the Senate commerce committee, has also been named chief counsel at the FAA. Rocheleau has been at the FAA since last week, the sources added.
 Mike Whitaker, unanimously confirmed as the FAA administrator in October 2023, stepped down early from his five-year term on 20 January when Trump took office and for 10 days the FAA declined to say who was running the agency on an acting basis. Trump has not yet named a permanent candidate to replace Whitaker.
The FAA is about 3,000 controllers behind staffing targets and the agency said in 2023 it had 10,700 certified controllers, about the same as a year earlier, Reuters reports.
As well as dealing with the aftermath of the Washington crash, Rocheleau will face key questions in his new role, including when to allow Boeing to boost production of the 737 Max after a mid-air emergency in January 2024.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.37pm GMT
block-time published-time 9.35am GMT 
Lawmakers and citizens have previously raised concerns about the crowded skies over the greater     area.
Last year, Bill Johnson, a commercially certified pilot and a retired US army explosives expert, saw more than 20 UH-60 army helicopters fly over his house in one hour as he was working outside in his vegetable garden in Annandale, a residential community in Virginia ’s Washington DC suburbs.
At first Johnson was bothered by the noise. But, as he kept noticing the thrum of military training flights overhead, he began to fear that the   in the skies could result in disaster. Johnson sent letters to military leaders at nearby Fort Belvoir, where the Black Hawk Sikorsky involved in   was based and flew from that night, and the Department of Defence. He sent a complaint to his congressperson and even to the Federal Aviation Administration warning them about the dangers of too many low-altitude army training helicopters soaring through the area.
“On 3/29/2024 at 1503 hours I observed two US army UH-60s nearly collide over 1-495 near Annandale,” he wrote in one complaint to the FAA from last March, noting they passed each other above the highway only “about 50-100 meters apart”.
That April, Johnson forwarded another complaint to the US Marine Corps base in Quantico, Virginia, raising similar concerns.
“Given that these are everyday training flights over known congested areas,” he said, referring to a nearby antenna, how precisely “does the military guarantee the safety of persons and property on the ground?”
No one answered his question, he told the Guardian on Thursday.
“We lost more than 60 people, and two aircraft, and we shut down a major airport, and it was completely avoidable,” he said.
“There’s so many places they could have been doing training. Why did they have to do it at the end of the runways of DCA?” Johnson continued, referring to the airport code of Reagan National airport.
block-time published-time 9.13am GMT 
 Alarms were raised about ‘congested’ airspace before fatal Washington crash  
Reporting by     and    .
After Wednesday’s fatal crash which took down a commercial jet and a military helicopter on a training flight at Washington DC ’s Reagan National airport, public officials and aviation experts are resurfacing concerns about how   the airspace is around the country’s capital.
As of Thursday night, authorities   all 64 people on the American Airlines flight were presumed dead as well as three more on the army helicopter, making the incident the deadliest US air tragedy . 
On Thursday, during his confirmation hearing before the Senate armed services committee, Daniel Driscoll, Donald Trump ’s nominee for secretary of the army, questioned why military helicopters need to conduct training exercises near such a busy commercial airport.
Driscoll told lawmakers that the incident seemed “preventable” and vowed to review army practices.
“There are appropriate times to take risk and inappropriate times to take risk,” he .  “I think we need to look at where is an appropriate time to take training risk, and it may not be at an airport like Reagan.”
The   has provided little information on its helicopter training activities near the capital and did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
 Martin Chalk, a former British Airways captain who retired in 2020, posited that military pilots might need to train in this particular area to prepare for transporting senior political and military figures to and from the area, which is close to the Pentagon as well as the White House, Capitol Hill and other buildings at the heart of the federal government.
  DC airports - Reagan National is closest to the centre of Washington DC.   
“The military tend to have a bit of a law-unto-themselves approach,” he said, explaining that military pilots do not have to follow all civil aviation protocols.
He emphasised that it is not clear yet exactly what happened but he suggested that investigators could ask questions about the exchanges between the aircraft and the tower.
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.18am GMT
block-time published-time 8.50am GMT 
Among the confirmed victims of the American Airlines jet carrying 64 people that   with an army Black Hawk helicopter carrying three soldiers were young figure skaters returning from the US figure skating championships, along with their parents and coaches, and a North Carolina -based flight attendant.
The Skating Club of Boston said in a   on Thursday that Jinna Han and Spencer Lane, along with their parents Jin Han and Christine Lane and coaches Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov were aboard the plane on Wednesday night.
The group was returning from the US figure skating national development camp, a program for “young competitive skaters of tomorrow”, following last week’s US championships in Wichita,    .
“Our sport and this club have suffered a horrible loss with this tragedy,” said Doug Zeghibe, the CEO and director of the Skating Club of . 
Skating is a tight-knit community where parents and kids come together six or seven days a week to train and work together. Everyone is like family. We are devastated and completely at a loss for words.”
The most recent post on Lane’s Instagram profile was a photograph from the inside of a plane on a runway, with the caption “ICT -> DCA” – the codes for Wichita Dwight D Eisenhower National airport and Ronald Reagan Washington National airport in Washington DC.
Lane was reportedly 16 years old, and from Barrington, Rhode Island, . 
 Related:  
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.53am GMT
block-time published-time 8.23am GMT 
 What does the NTSB do and how will the investigation work?  
 National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) chair, Jennifer Hommendy, described the investigation into the crash on Wednesday night as an “all-hands-on-deck event” for the agency during a news conference on Thursday in which she appeared with members of the board and a senior investigator overseeing the investigation. The Associated Press (AP) have put together this useful explainer on what the NTSB are and what they do:
 What does the agency do? 
The NTSB is an independent federal agency responsible for investigating all civil aviation accidents as well as serious incidents in the US involving other modes of transportation, such as train disasters and major accidents involving motor vehicles, marine vessels, pipelines and even commercial space operators. “We’re here to ensure the American people that we are going to leave no stone unturned in this investigation,” Hommendy said, noting the investigation is in the very early stages. “We are going to conduct a thorough investigation of this entire tragedy, looking at the facts.” The agency has five board members who serve five-year terms and are nominated by the president and confirmed by the US Senate.
 How will the investigation work? 
For the investigation into Wednesday’s crash, the NTSB will establish several different working groups, each responsible for investigating different areas connected to the accident, board member Todd Inman said. Inman said those groups include operations, which will examine flight history and crewmember duties; structures, which will document airframe wreckage and the accident scene; power plants, which will focus on aircraft engines and engine accessories; systems, which will study the electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic components of the two aircraft; air traffic control, which will review flight track surveillance information, including radar, and controller-pilot communications; survival factors, which will analyse the injuries to the crew and passengers and crash and rescue efforts; and a helicopter group. The investigation also will include a human-performance group that will be a part of the operations, air traffic control and helicopter groups and will study the crew performance and any factors that could be involved such as human error, including fatigue, medications, medical histories, training and workload, Inman said.
 How long will the investigation take? 
NTSB officials did not say on Thursday how long the investigation would take, but accident investigations often take between one and two years to complete. The agency typically releases a preliminary report within a few weeks of the accident that includes a synopsis of information collected at the scene.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.28am GMT
block-time published-time 8.02am GMT 
 What we know on day two  
A regional passenger jet from Wichita, Kansas,   approaching Ronald Reagan National airport near Washington DC late on Wednesday, killing all 64 people onboard the plane and three soldiers in the helicopter. Here’s what we know a day after the crash:
Investigators have  from American Eagle flight 5342, an American Airlines flight operated by PSA,the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) announced late on Thursday. The recorders are now at the NTSB’s labs for evaluation. Board member Todd Inman said officials aimed to release a preliminary report into the incident within 30 days.At least 27 bodies have been recovered from the plane and one from the Black Hawk helicopter which crashed into the Potomac River.  The Bombardier CRJ-700 jet broke into three parts and was in waist-deep water in the Potomac. More than 300 emergency workers, including divers, weathered high winds and packed ice to retrieve pieces of the plane and bodies.As many as 14 skaters and coaches, including two 16-year-olds and a married pair of world champions, .  The Skating Club of Boston said Jinna Han and Spencer Lane, both aged 16, were on the plane. The club also said the Russian-born ice skating coaches and former world champions Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov, who were husband and wife, were onboard.   ice-skating coach Alexandr Kirsanov, and two of his young students Angela Yang and Sean Kay.Two Chinese citizens were also on the plane, state media reported citing the Chinese embassy. Senator Maria Cantwell said that the dead on the plane also included citizens from Russia, the Philippines and Germany.The pilot and first officer on the American Airlines flight were named as Jonathan Campos and Sam Lilley in media reports.  Campos was 34 and Lilley 28, it was reported.Donald Trump has been strongly criticised by Democrats after suggesting that .  In a press conference, Trump told reporters, “We had the highest standard [of air traffic controllers in his first administration] that you could have, and then they changed it back – that was Biden,” Trump said, adding that he believed the changes were made as part of diversity programs that his administration was vowed to repeal.Hakeem Jeffries, the Democratic House minority leader, said Trump had used the collision to “peddle lies, conspiracy theories, and attack people of color and women without any basis whatsoever”. He continued: “Have you no decency? Have you no respect for the families whose lives have been turned upside down?”Journalists also highlighted another exchange between the president and journalists. Trump responded to a question about whether he was going to visit the scene of the plane crash by saying: “What’s the site? The water? You want me to go swimming?”Trump later signed another executive order that officials said would stop “woke policies” in federal aviation. Trump had already signed an executive order ending diversity initiatives at the Federal Aviation Administration last week.Conflicting reports have emerged about whether staffing levels at Ronald Reagan national airport were “not normal”. According to an initial Federal Aviation Administration report, obtained by the New York Times, the Associated Press and others, staffing levels were “not normal for the time of day and volume of traffic”. According to the report, one air traffic controller was responsible for coordinating helicopter traffic and arriving and departing planes when the collision happened, the Associated Press reported, and that configuration was described as “not normal”.But a person familiar with the matter told the Associated Press that staffing at the air traffic control tower on Wednesday night was, in fact, at a normal level. The positions are regularly combined when controllers need to step away from the console for breaks or are in the process of a shift change, or air traffic is slow, the person said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal procedures.Pete Hegseth, the defense secretary, said the Pentagon had launched an investigation. He added that the army helicopter crew involved in the collision was “fairly experienced”.  Describing the flight as an “annual proficiency training flight”, Hegseth said: “They did have night vision goggles.”Both the helicopter and the passenger plane had been flying in a “standard flight pattern” on a clear night before the crash,transportation secretary, Sean Duffy, said.  He added that it was not uncommon for military aircraft to be seen in the skies over the nation’s capital, including near Reagan National, which is located in Arlington, Virginia.TheAmerican Airlines CEO, Robert Eisen, said: “At this time we don’t know why the military aircraft came into the path of the PSA aircraft.”  He urged friends and family of those affected to call 1-800-679-8215, which is the helpline the airline has set up.A day before Wednesday night’s midair collision near Reagan airport,a different jet there had to abort its landing  and make a second approach after a helicopter appeared near its flight path, the Washington Post reported.The US army saw an increase in very serious aviation incidents during the last fiscal year, with 15 flight and two ground incidents that resulted in deaths of service members, destruction of aircraft, or more than $2.5m in damage to the airframe, the Associated Press reported.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.40pm GMT
block-time published-time 7.43am GMT 
Senator Maria Cantwell, the top Democrat on the Senate commerce committee, questioned the safety of military and commercial flights separated by as little as 350 feet (107 m) vertically and horizontally, reports Reuters. 
She also urged the government to reconsider allowing so many helicopter flights next to such a busy airport.
block-time published-time 7.26am GMT 
 Philippines says its police officer among US plane crash victims  
Agence France-Presse (AFP) has some more information on the news that a Filipino police officer was among the people killed in a mid-air crash in Washington between a US commercial jet and a military helicopter (   )
“The Philippine National Police mourns the tragic loss of police colonel Pergentino N. Malabed, chief of the supply management division, who was among those on board the American Airlines flight that collided mid-air with a US army Black Hawk helicopter near Reagan National airport,” an official statement said.
 Manila was notified that a body carrying Malabed’s passport was recovered from the Potomac, police spokesperson Colonel Randulf Tuano told reporters.
Malabed’s widow is set to fly to the US to formally identify and claim the remains, Tuano added.
Malabed and two other officers had flown to the US to test personnel vests that the Philippine police planned to purchase, reports AFP. Malabed then headed onwards alone intending “to pay a courtesy call” to the police attache of the Philippine embassy in Washington.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.27am GMT
block-time published-time 7.12am GMT 
 Investigators plan to push forward on Friday with efforts to retrieve the two aircraft involved in a crash in Washington that killed 67 people and raised questions about air safety in the US capital, Reuters reports.
Fresh from recovering the so-called black boxes from the American Airlines plane that crashed into the Potomac River after colliding with an Army Black Hawk helicopter on Wednesday, divers aim to “salvage the aircraft” and find additional components on Friday, Washington’s fire department said. 
“Overnight, boats will remain on scene for security and surface searches from local, state, and federal regional partners,” it said.
The National Transportation Safety Board is studying the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder from the CRJ700 airplane, and is expected to provide a preliminary report in 30 days.
block-time published-time 6.53am GMT 
 US transportation secretary Sean Duffy said late on Thursday that he will soon announce a plan to reform the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) after the devastating collision between an American Airlines regional plane and an Army helicopter killed 67 people.
“I am in the process of developing an initial plan to fix the @FAANews. I hope to put it out very shortly,” Duffy said on X, as reported by Reuters. 
President Trump who has harshly criticised diversity efforts at the FAA, directed an immediate assessment of aviation safety on Thursday.
Earlier, Trump said he had appointed a former senior aviation official as the acting head of the FAA - just one day after the deadliest U.S. air disaster in more than 20 years.
block-time published-time 6.37am GMT 
Two lawyers, Sarah Lee Best and Elizabeth Anne Keys, were among those onboard the American Airlines flight, their lawfirm and families have confirmed in statements reported by CNN and other media. Wilkinson Stekloff, where they were both associated said in a statement:
We are heartbroken by this terrible tragedy. Liz and Sarah were cherished members of our firm – wonderful attorneys, colleagues and friends.
Keys died on what was her 33rd birthday, her family said in a statement to CNN affiliate .  They wrote:
Words cannot express how de?eply Elizabeth, my Bitsy, will be missed. We are filled with unbearable sorrow and despair at our loss.
Best, also 33, was a hard worker who always found time for kind gestures, her husband, Daniel Solomon, told the Washington Post.
He said the pair, who were due to celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary in February, had finally been planning to take their honeymoon in May. They were planning to go to Hawaii, where Sarah was born. He said:
We are each other’s world. I just can’t honestly imagine going through the rest of my life without her. She really touched the lives of anybody who got to know her.
block-time published-time 6.16am GMT 
 A Filipino police colonel was also among the fatalities in the deadly mid-are crash, the Philippine National Police (PNP) confirmed on Friday, . 
The Philippine National Police mourns the tragic loss of Police Colonel Pergentino N. Malabed, chief of the Supply Management Division, who was among those on board the American Airlines flight that collided midair with a U.S. Army Black Hawk helicopter near Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C., and crashed into the Potomac River on Wednesday night,” the PNP said in a statement.
block-time published-time 6.00am GMT 
No official list of the victims of the crash in DC have been given, but family and friends have identified three of the four members on the American Airlines flight as pilots Sam Lilley and Jonathan Campos and flight attendant Danasia Elder.
 Here is what we know about them, as reported by Associated Press. 
 Sam Lilley knew he wanted to fly and began training to be a pilot, like his father, right out of college. “You don’t really expect to meet people that find their purpose so early on in life, and Sam found his in flying,” said Kaitlin Sells, who met Lilley while they were students at Georgia Southern University. Lilley was the first officer aboard the American Airlines jet carrying 60 passengers and four crew members that collided midair on Wednesday night.
Lilley’s father, Timothy Lilley, told WAGA-TV in Atlanta that he was in Washington waiting for answers. “This is undoubtedly the worst day of my life,” said Timothy Lilley, who also is a longtime pilot and served as a US Army helicopter pilot for 20 years, noting he flew similar routes in and out of the Pentagon.  “I was so proud when Sam became a pilot,” he wrote on Facebook. “Now it hurts so bad I can’t even cry myself to sleep. I know I’ll see him again but my heart is breaking.” Timothy Lilley said his son was excelling in his career and personal life at the time of his death and was engaged to be married later this year.
 The captain of the American Airlines flight was 34-year-old Jonathan Campos, according to multiple media reports. His aunt, Beverly Lane, told the New York Times that Campos had wanted to be a pilot since the age of 3.  “I think he wanted to be free, and be able to fly and soar like a bird,” Lane said. She told the newspaper she talked with Campos on Wednesday, just before the fateful flight. He told her he was looking forward to an upcoming Caribbean cruise with family. Campos was a 2015 graduate of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Florida, where he studied Aeronautical Science, according to the university.
 Danasia Elder was a flight attendant on the commercial flight, WSOC-TV in Charlotte, North Carolina, reported. Elder’s brother-in-law, Brandon Payne, described her as “full of life,” highlighting her love for God, her kids and travel. She was married with two children, Kayden and Dallas. “She was a great wife, a great parent, a great friend,” Payne told the news station. “She was very bright, very smart. She was an entrepreneur. This flight attendant thing was kind of like one of her dreams she wanted to do.” Payne said he is proud of his sister-in-law for pursuing her dream. “She would want y’all do the same thing she did. Chase your dreams, no matter what. Don’t let nothing scare you, push you away. Just believe in yourself, believe in God, and follow the path,” Payne said.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.55pm GMT
block-time published-time 5.37am GMT 
 Barack Obama pays tribute to victims of plane crash  
“Our hearts break for the families who lost loved ones in the tragic plane and helicopter crash at DCA,” former president Barack Obama 
“Michelle and I send our prayers and condolences to everyone who is mourning today, and we’re grateful to the first responders who are doing everything they can to help under extremely difficult circumstances.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.40am GMT
block-time published-time 5.21am GMT 
 Among those grief-stricken in the wake of the deadly crash in DC was Nancy Kerrigan, a former US women’s champion and two-time Olympic and world medalist based in Boston, where the World Figure Skating Championships will be held in March.
“Not sure how to process it,” she said, breaking down in tears. “When you find out you know some of the people on the plane, it’s an even bigger blow.”
 As many as 14 skaters and coaches, including two 16-year-olds and a married pair of world champions, . 
The Skating Club of Boston said Jinna Han and Spencer Lane, both aged 16, were on the plane. 
The club also said the Russian-born ice skating coaches and former world champions Yevgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov, who were husband and wife, were onboard.   ice-skating coach Alexandr Kirsanov, and two of his young students Angela Yang and Sean Kay.
block-time published-time 5.10am GMT 
 China says two citizens among US plane crash victims  
 China on Friday expressed “deep condolences” over a midair crash in Washington in which two of its nationals died, extending “sincere sympathies” to affected families. 
“China has requested the US side to promptly update it on the progress of the search and rescue operations, swiftly clarify the cause of the accident and properly handle follow-up matters,” a spokesperson for Beijing’s foreign ministry said, as reported by Agence France Presse.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.55am GMT
block-time published-time 4.56am GMT 
 What we know so far: 
If you are looking for a quick recap of the latest developments, here is a helpful explainer of what we know so far about the fatal aviation incident in Washington DC.
 Related:  
block-time published-time 4.38am GMT 
 Reagan national’s main runway is the busiest in the United States, with more than 800 daily takeoffs and landings. 
The National Transportation Safety Board has investigated nine accidents or incidents at the airport this century, including two that were fatal, records showed.
block-time published-time 4.26am GMT 
 Air traffic control recordings appear to capture final attempted communications with helicopter  
 Air traffic control recordings appear to capture the final attempted communications with the helicopter, call sign PAT25, before it collided with the jet. 
“PAT25, do you have a CRJ in sight? PAT25, pass behind the CRJ,” an air traffic controller says at 8:47 pm ET (0147 GMT) on Wednesday, according to a recording on liveatc.net, Reuters news reported.
Seconds later, another aircraft calls in to air traffic control, saying, “Tower, did you see that?” – apparently referring to the crash.
An air traffic controller then redirects planes heading to runway 33 to go around.
“I just saw a fireball and then it was just gone. I haven’t seen anything since they hit the river,” an air traffic controller says.
Webcam video of the crash showed the collision and an explosion lighting up the night sky.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.31am GMT
block-time published-time 4.08am GMT 
An Army helicopter may have deviated from its approved flight path before its deadly collision with an American Airlines jet over the Potomac River, the . 
 According to the Times, details about the UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter’s final location indicated that it was not on its approved route and was flying higher above the ground as it traversed the busy airspace just outside the nation’s capital, according to four people briefed on the matter but not authorised to speak publicly.
The Guardian was not able to immediately and independently verify the report. 
block-time published-time 3.48am GMT 
 The airspace around Washington, D.C., is congested and complex — a combination aviation experts have long worried could lead to catastrophe, reports the Associated Press. Those fears materialised on Wednesday night when an American Airlines plane collided with a military helicopter, taking the lives of 67 people, including three soldiers and more than a dozen figure skaters.
Even in peak flying conditions, experts said, the airspace around Reagan Washington National Airport can challenge the most experienced pilots, who must navigate hundreds of other commercial planes, military aircraft and restricted areas around sensitive sites.  “This was a disaster waiting to happen,” Ross Aimer, a retired United Airlines captain and chief executive officer of Aero Consulting Experts, told the Associated Press.
 “Those of us who have been around a long time have been yelling into a vacuum that something like this would happen because our systems are stretched to extremes.” 
block-time published-time 3.33am GMT 
 How did this crash happen? 
As we await answers from the investigation here is a visual guide of how this tragic event unfolded: 
 Related:  
block-time published-time 3.29am GMT 
 Young figure skaters returning from US figure skating championships confirmed as among victims  
 Among the confirmed victims of the American Airlines jet carrying 64 people that   with an army Black Hawk helicopter carrying three soldiers were young figure skaters returning from the US figure skating championships, along with their parents and coaches, and a North Carolina-based flight attendant.
The Skating Club of Boston said in a   on Thursday that Jinna Han and Spencer Lane, along with their parents Jin Han and Christine Lane and coaches Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov were aboard the plane on Wednesday night.
Nationals from Russia, China, the Philippines and Germany were also on board.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.40am GMT
block-time published-time 3.10am GMT 
 National Transportation Safety Board says it will have preliminary report into disaster within 30 days  
What caused this tragic aviation disaster is not yet known, but the National Transportation Safety Board investigators has said it will have a preliminary report within 30 days.
Despite the lack of clarity, newly inaugurated US president Donald Trump has accused his Democratic predecessor Joe Biden of lowering hiring standards and suggested the Federal Aviation Administration’s diversity push could have weakened its capabilities.
 The comments come as president Trump has pushed back against what he has described as the “woke policies” of his predecessor. 
 Asked if the crash was caused by diversity hiring, he said: “It just could have been.” 
The Trump administration has not provided any proof to back these assertions, and there is no evidence that efforts to make the federal workforce more diverse have compromised air safety.
After the crash, Trump signed an   on aviation safety that rolls back diversity initiatives and repeated claims without evidence that those initiatives contributed to Wednesday’s fatal collision.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.25am GMT
block-time published-time 2.58am GMT 
Satellite images of earlier recovery efforts
A closer view below:
block-time published-time 2.41am GMT 
It’s almost 10pm in Washington DC, and almost 24 hrs since a fatal mid-air collision between a regional passenger jet and a US Black Hawk military helicopter – a tragedy that has been described as one of the worst aviation disasters in the US in decades. 
There were 67 people on board both aircraft, and there are no survivors. 
Washington’s fire and emergency department said its divers had searched all accessible areas and would conduct additional searches to locate aircraft components on Friday.
block-time published-time 2.28am GMT 
 Opening summary  
Hello and welcome to the Guardian’s live coverage of Wednesday’s night’s collision between a regional passenger jet and a military helicopter near Washington DC’s Reagan airport.
The flight data and cockpit voice recorders have been recovered from the American Airlines flight, National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has announced, and they are now at the NTSB’s labs for evaluation. 
The NTSB said earlier on Thursday that it was too soon to determine the causes of the disaster and pledged to release a preliminary report within 30 days.
Early scrutiny focused on an initial Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) report on the incident which called the staffing levels at a DC air control tower “not normal,” since one controller was reportedly handling both helicopters and planes.
But the Associated Press and CNN have both reported that sources told them this level of staffing was, in fact, “normal” or “not uncommon.” The FAA has long struggled with a shortage of air traffic controllers and identified fatigue as a factor that might lead to mistakes, the Associated Press noted.
Here’s a summary of other developments:
With the 67 people aboard both the American Airlines flight and the army Black Hawk helicopter all presumed dead, the collision is being called“the deadliest aviation disaster” in the US since 2001. At least 28 bodies have been recovered from the Potomac River, with recovery operations ongoing.A day before Wednesday night’s midair collision near Reagan airport,a different jet there had to abort its landing and make a second approach after a helicopter appeared near its flight path, the Washington Post reported.The US army saw an increase in very serious aviation incidents during the last fiscal year, with 15 flight and two ground incidents that resulted in deaths of service members, destruction of aircraft, or more than $2.5m in damage to the airframe, the Associated Press reported,Donald Trumpand members of his administration claimed, without evidence, that diversity efforts at the FAA under the Biden and Obama administration could be to blame for the crash, with Trump specifically claiming that the FAA had been accused of being “too white,” and suggesting efforts to hire Americans with disabilities were irresponsible.Trumpsigned an executive order that rolls back diversity initiatives  to stop “woke policies” in federal aviation.The Trump administration’s choice to draw anunfounded connection between a deadly tragedy and diversity initiatives at a press conferencesparked broad condemnation from Democratic politicians. They called the comments “disgusting,” “despicable,” and “racist,” with Democratic minority leader Hakeem Jeffries saying that Trump was “blaming women and people of color for the deadly plane crash.”As many as 14 skaters and coaches, including two 16-year-olds and a married pair of world champions, .  The Skating Club of Boston said Jinna Han and Spencer Lane, both aged 16, and the Russian-born ice skating coaches and former world champions Yevgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov, who were husband and wife, were on the flight.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
