




thetimes.co.uk
January 26, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1182 words
Byline: Rod Liddle
Highlight: We are talking billions lost to the Treasury. So how shall we pay for the benefits of those people who hate millionaires?
Body


It seems that millionaires are leaving our country at the rate of one every 45 minutes. You have probably seen their dinky little jets zipping over your head en route for — well, anywhere, just not here. Not with Rachel from Accounts running the economy.
Many will think this mass evacuation is a good thing, given that we all hate millionaires because they are millionaires. They must have done something wicked to accrue that sort of money, plus their taste in interior decor is unspeakably ghastly (if the Candy brothers are anything to go by). So we will soon have a country with a lower quantity of both wickedness and emetic bling, which is to be welcomed.
There are a couple of problems, however. Millionaires are just about the only people in the UK who still work for a living, and they pay for the rest of us, especially those of us who hate millionaires the most — the congenitally useless, dense or bone idle. One firm claims 10,800 millionaires left last year, double the number of the previous year. In revenue terms that was equivalent to more than half a million average taxpayers decamping.
We are talking billions lost to the Treasury. So how shall we pay for the benefits of those people who hate millionaires? It is entirely possible that some of them may, at some point, be forced to go out to work.
While the millionaires are getting the hell out, many more people are coming in, although not on private jets. This is a problem, too. The people coming in are not going to be contributing quite as much to the Treasury, if they contribute at all. And there is another rather ticklish issue. Not only are the people coming in nowhere near as rich as millionaires; they may not, all of them, have quite the same intellectual prowess.
Most millionaires I have met have been quite clever. Horrible, obvs, but quite clever: they know that there is more than one way to skin a cat and will happily demonstrate alternative methods, cackling to themselves. And even though our country tries to deny the fact, clever people are quite useful to the economy. Clearly the people coming in will be kinder, gentler and more considerate of others than millionaires would be, so we have that as a consolation. A very real consolation.
The tyranny of the clever people has been called one of the last civil rights struggles: how do we curtail the power of the intellectually gifted and put the smug buggers in their place? One way of doing this is through the holy trinity of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) targets espoused by companies across this country of ours and, until fairly recently, 

.
Any system that militates against the idea of a meritocracy inevitably devalues the economy. It is axiomatic that a company will work best when it is able to select the most gifted and suitable employees, without regard to their race, sex or physical abledness. The notion of DEI, with its quotas, not only prevents that from happening but also discourages those penalised by DEI to the extent that they might well be tempted to follow the millionaires and flee the country, heading for somewhere more democratic in its recruitment procedures.
I spent many forlorn hours wondering how we might wrestle ourselves free from DEI and came to the conclusion that it was here to stay. And then Donald Trump abolished it all in the US, overnight. In fact, US companies had already been junking their fatuous DEI programmes over the past year or so, believing that having a company that functioned properly was, in the end, preferable to one that got Brownie points from the diversity charities and felt it was living its best life. DEI sprang from the necessities of affirmative action but morphed, hideously, into a spiteful, undemocratic and racist fetish that cost US companies billions each year with no discernible benefit.
Trump has also turned his attention to immigration — and at 

 is determined to ensure that when the US accepts people as citizens, they will be highly skilled workers needed by the American economy. Trump is, of course, a millionaire (and then some) with absolutely appalling taste in interior design. But he is also brutally pragmatic. His objection to DEI is economic more than ideological, and he brings a similar pragmatism to the issue of immigration — who should come into the country and who should not.
Perhaps it is not a very “nice” approach to pressing social issues, but I don’t think many millionaires will be fleeing the US in the next four years. Meanwhile, they run from the UK as fast as they can, DEI still reigns supreme in British industry and we have no real grip on how to attract the best talent to our country while keeping out the dross. Because there’s no such thing as dross, is there? They’re all human beings, as valuable as the next man, even if the next man is a millionaire who pays for the benefits of thousands. We are a nicer, kinder country, then — and one headed, full speed, downwards.
Bad news for your pigeon-toed boss
In one of the morning newspapers I read advice from a psychologist about how to tell if your boss hates you. Apparently, you have to watch his feet.
If his shoes are pointing away from you, he thinks you’re absolutely useless. Unless he has really deformed feet that have been kind of put on the wrong way.
Anyway, that’s where we are now. How much easier it was in the old days. I remember a news editor saying to me, with some force: “You really are a hapless f***ing git.” No misunderstanding there, is there?
And the worst thing is, pretty soon HR departments will be warning bosses to keep their feet facing forwards at all times, in case someone sues.
Liberty and justice for all elephants
Five elephants have had their demands for justice kicked out of a court in Colorado on the grounds that they are not human beings. The demands were articulated on the creatures’ behalf by an animal rights charity, which objects to their confinement in a local zoo. The court presumably came to its decision upon regarding the array of trunks, tusks and large flappy ears before it.
In ruling that animals have no legal redress and we can do what we like with them, such as grind them down into an aggregate for building purposes, the court is a little behind the times. In Spain certain animals have been certified as having sufficient intelligence to warrant legal protection — and elephants are at least as clever as 40 per cent of people in Colorado, I would guess.
 Somewhere in Pontypridd, or maybe Abergavenny, there will be a Welsh woman who is sick of receiving death threats and abusive social media posts. Her name is, of course, Eowyn. And she is being accosted on account of blowing people’s trampolines into the next county, or taking the roofs off their houses.
You think people wouldn’t be so stupid? In the 1990s I spoke to a Californian chap who, after really bad weather had destroyed quite a few homes, had his shopfront smashed and received anonymous death threats on his phone. “Why did you do it, you bastard?” the callers asked. His name was Al Nino.
Inauguration — Musk storms in

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
