




The Times (London)
January 23, 2025 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Times Newspapers Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 26
Length: 389 words
Byline: Alistair Dawber
Body


Joe Biden told President Trump that Americans looked to the White House for "steadiness in the inevitable storms" in a letter he left for his successor.
It has become traditional for outgoing presidents to leave letters in a drawer of the Resolute desk for their immediate successors. Not all presidents reveal what is written, but Trump made details of Biden's letter public yesterday.
In the note inside a white envelope addressed to "47", Biden wrote: "As I take leave of this sacred office I wish you and your family all the best in the next four years.
"The American people - and people around the world - look to this house for steadiness in the inevitable storms of history, and my prayer is that in the coming years will be a time of prosperity, peace and grace for our nation.
"May God bless you and guide you as he has blessed and guided our beloved country since our founding."
Hours after Biden wrote the letter, first published by Fox News, Trump excoriated his record as president.
"My recent election is a mandate to completely and totally reverse a horrible betrayal, and all of these many betrayals that have taken place, and to give the people back their faith, their wealth, their democracy and indeed, their freedom," he said, speaking shortly after taking the oath of office to begin his second term.
Later on inauguration day Trump said Biden's letter was "very nice", adding: "Basically, it was a little bit of an inspirational type of letter, you know? 'Enjoy it, do a good job. Important, very important, how important the job is.' I think I should let people see it; it was a positive for him, in writing it. I appreciated the letter."
The Bidens attended both Trump inaugurations, but the favour was not returned in 2021. Trump refused to attend Biden's inauguration but did write him a letter. Biden described what he wrote as "very generous" but the contents were never made public. According to Bob Woodward and Robert Costa, the authors of Peril, Biden "put it in his pocket and did not share it with his advisers". ? All federal employees who work on efforts to reduce discrimination and increase diversity have been put on paid leave after Trump signed an executive order on Monday banning affirmative action. It means that staff working on DEI, or diversity, equity and inclusion, programmes will be removed.

Graphic

 
Donald Trump said he appreciated Joe Biden's letter

Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
