




Arkansas Traveler: University of Arkansas
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 711 words
Byline: Julia Nall
Body


"Hatred paralyzes life; love releases it. Hatred confuses life; love harmonizes it. Hatred darkens life; love illuminates it." - Martin Luther King Jr.
America is angry: angry at the government, angry at each other and angry about the state of the world. Although overwhelming, this anger has its justifications. Young people face major challenges trying to own a home compared to their parents and grandparents. Income inequality is at its highest in modern American history with no signs of slowing. America has replaced the oldest-elected president in United States history with a president even older than him. Our foreign policy spending has been nothing short of a disaster, and the country's once-unquestioned global influence is losing credibility by the minute. But whose fault is it? 
As we have seen in recent years, if you consume American media, these issues are everyone's fault. According to Fox News, America's decline is due to woke liberals and immigrants taking jobs. According to CNN, it is Donald Trump and the MAGA movement. According to white supremacist accounts that have raided X, it is America's tolerance of "less superior" races in a nation supposedly founded on democratic and egalitarian principles. According to leftists, it is the bourgeoisie and CEOs who must be overthrown to reclaim the fruits of labor. These examples go on endlessly, and no matter what you do, there always seems to be at least one group blaming you for America's decline. 
Some of these groups hold valid concerns and offer level-headed assessments of the state of the nation - excluding your average neo-Nazi lunatic. However, if we subscribe too heavily to ideological dogma, our discourse becomes useless. There is a wealth of truth in the perspective of a Black man in South Carolina, socially and systemically marginalized, who believes free-market capitalism is bound to disenfranchise communities. There is truth in the activism of a trans woman in Missouri who sees legislators trying to deny her existence and bar young people like her from accessing gender-affirming care. There is also truth in the experience of an oil rig worker whose livelihood depends on an industry that simultaneously damages the environment. 
Each of these people - shaped by unique socialization, occupations and ideologies - contributes an important voice to American democracy that must be heard. However, the decline of third spaces and the erosion of community engagement in the U.S. have made it harder for people to discuss political issues face-to-face. Media conglomerates have exploited this growing individualization, dividing the public along ideological lines to capitalize on biases-no matter how immoral or incorrect. Once beacons of hope and unity, technology and media have instead become instruments of division. People are disengaged from their local communities, and the one digital-age substitute for community, social media, reinforces ideological bubbles through personalized algorithms that amplify falsehoods and hateful rhetoric, presenting one's worldview as the only "correct" one. 
In this tumultuous era, when politicians, bureaucrats, pundits and anonymous internet figures all seek to profit from polarization, it is more important than ever to recognize just how lucrative division has become. 
Division fuels 24-hour news cycles, scapegoating immigrants, DEI initiatives, rural conservatives and members of the LGBTQ+ community for society's complex problems. Division keeps you glued to your phone, trapping you in a cycle of pessimism. Division convinces you to cut ties with family members simply because of their media consumption. 
We need community now more than ever. Instead of spending hours doom scrolling, volunteer with a local organization and make tangible impacts in your community. Instead of recycling hate-fueled headlines and social media posts, check in on your friends and family during this age of negativity. One thing is certain in the digital era: division is a poison, supplied en masse by those who disregard the well-being of the average American, but community is the antidote. I urge you to stay informed through independent news sources and be a vessel of hope and positivity in a world where both are increasingly absent.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
