




MailOnline
February 25, 2025 Tuesday 11:50 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 723 words
Byline: Stephen M. Lepore For Dailymail.Com
Body


Republicans in the House turned out to be a surprisingly tough crowd for Elon Musk in a secret meeting meant to go over cuts made by the Department of Government Efficiency.
The massive DOGE federal review has already saved about $65 billion in taxpayer dollars, the group claims. 
Those billions in savings came from DOGE cutting many contracts for foreign aid, DEI education, thousands of recently hired federal employees and more. 
The 'First Buddy' Musk has seen resistance from the typical places: liberal activist groups and even some DOGE employees who resigned en masse Tuesday. 
Now, it appears he's even got the GOP Congress skeptical, as Georgia Rep. Austin Scott claims that the party is not on the 'same page' about the agency.
The Congressman adds that there hasn't been enough organization in the cuts DOGE has made.
'DOGE's recent requests for federal employees should have been coordinated with the agencies before they were issued,' he said. 
'I fully support those agencies working with DOGE to improve efficiency and eliminate tax dollar waste,' he added.
Scott said that he had a problem with constituents on the dole being told they were leeches. 
'With that being said, referring to Americans who may need government assistance as 'parasites' is unacceptable in any circumstance.' 
Three additional Republican representatives told Fox News Digital that their closed-door meeting had left them frustrated. 
One anonymous GOP lawmaker said that Musk's leaving him and his colleagues to be 'fed to the wolves, while Elon's just tweeting.' 
They added that Scott 'wants to see better communication between DOGE, the president and the House.'
Another appreciated what Musk was doing but wished he would be a little nicer about it.
'It's not how most normal good bosses would lay off somebody. Some of them may be bad, but most of them are good. Treat them like Americans.' 
One more Republican protested the idea of giving out a $5,000 'DOGE Dividend' to show taxpayers their savings, calling an idea both Musk and Donald Trump have mulled over 'childish.' 
'Now we want to take the money for waste, fraud, and abuse that was collected by the federal government and give everyone $5,000...or we could just pay off the national debt, or we could use that for the next round of appropriations we have to pay for here in Congress,' they said.
The White House continued to steadfastly back Musk, with Karoline Leavitt addressing the cuts at a press briefing. 
'The president's sent out a Truth last weekend to Elon Musk saying he loves everything Elon is doing. And he wants him to be even more aggressive because DOGE thus far has proven incredibly successful in making our government more efficient,' Leavitt said. 
'And so Elon and DOGE came up with this idea. Elon has implemented this at his private companies. It has proven successful. And it's a very simple idea when you think about it all.' 
Trump continues to support Musk, endorsing his efforts to slash government despite triggering a flood of angry protestors. 
'ELON IS DOING A GREAT JOB, BUT I WOULD LIKE TO SEE HIM GET MORE AGGRESSIVE,' Trump wrote on Social Media over the weekend. 
After sending effectively all federal workers an email from a sender titled 'HR' - really from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) - asking 'what did you do last week' many of Trump's lieutenants had to clarify the vague email from Musk's team.
Recently confirmed FBI Director Kash Patel told his team to disregard the email. The Pentagon, under Pete Hegseth, also put out a statement telling employees to not address the request from 'HR.' 
However, in another post on X, the app's owner and DOGE's leader said that whoever disregards the next email will be fired. 
'Subject to the discretion of the President, they will be given another chance,' Musk said of employees who did not respond to his first email. 
'Failure to respond a second time will result in termination,' the post continued. 
Roughly one third of the DOGE workers who were holdovers from the U.S. Digital Service quit Tuesday as a result of the letter, the AP reports. 
'We will not use our skills as technologists to compromise core government systems, jeopardize Americans' sensitive data, or dismantle critical public services,' their letter states.
'We will not lend our expertise to carry out or legitimize DOGE's actions.'

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
