




States News Service
February 15, 2025 Saturday


Copyright 2025 States News Service
Length: 787 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON 
Body


The following information was released by the U. S. Senate Committee on Appropriations:
Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Vice Chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, released another update detailing how, in his fourth week in office, President Trump has continued to block hundreds of billions of dollars in enacted funding from making its way out to families and communities across America who are counting on investments that have been enacted into law.
In a statement, Senator Murray said:
"Another week has gone by, and the president continues to illegally block hundreds of billions of dollars from making it out to workers, families, and communities across America.
"Little has been done by this administration over the last week to restore investments people in red and blue states are counting on, and it's workers, families, and businesses that are feeling the consequences.
"With each day that passes, the uncertain fate of these investments takes a toll of its own: ever-growing anxiety for workers whose jobs are in jeopardy, for farmers eyeing the calendar and waiting on resources they're owed, and for business owners worried a ripped-up contract might put them under.
"It's time this devastating funding freeze ends and Donald Trump and Elon Musk restore funding owed to hard-working Americans in every part of the country."
A table of estimated funding in jeopardy is below:
While the extent of Trump's funding freeze remains uncertain as his administration refuses to clarify what is blocked, here is anon-exhaustive overview of what is frozen by Trump's actions and in jeopardy.
Trump Action
Relevant Agencies
Select Examples of Affected Programs
Funding in Jeopardy*
Executive Order
Freezing IIJA and IRA Funding
Department of Commerce
High-speed broadband deployment.
$40+ billion
(EO 14154)
Department of Energy
Efforts to build and upgrade America's energy infrastructure, lower costs for consumers.
$98 billion
Department of Housing and Urban Development
Grants and loans to improve resiliency and energy efficiency of affordable housing.
$985+ million
Department of the Interior
Tribal electrification, hazardous fuel reduction, National Parks maintenance and staffing, and more.
$20+ billion
Department of Transportation
Funding to upgrade roads, bridges, transit, and more.
$70+ billion
EPA
Funds for clean water infrastructure, tackling pollution, Superfund sites, and more.
$100+ billion
Forest Service
Wildfire risk reduction, ecosystem restoration, and more.
$10+ billion
NOAA
Funding for flood inundation mapping, coastal resilience projects, habitat restoration, ocean observations, fisheries management, and more.
$1.5 billion
USDA
Grants for producers and rural small businesses to finance renewable energy projects, for farmers to improve climate resiliency, for watershed protection and flood prevention, rural broadband, and more.
$25 billion
Executive Order Blocking All Foreign Assistance
(EO 14169)
Department of State and USAID
Life-saving aid, funding to monitor and prevent the spread of infectious diseases that can reach our shores, counterterrorism programs, programs to give U.S. businesses an edge over Chinese and other companies in foreign markets, funds owed to U.S. businesses for services rendered, and more.
$30+ billion
Action to Block Funding to NGOs
Department of Homeland Security
Shelter and Services Program, Citizenship and Integration Grants, and Case Management Pilot Program.
Hundreds of millions
Executive Order Halting Funding for Anything Deemed "DEI" (EO 14151)
All agencies
Any programs or expenditures the administration deems "woke."
Organizations nationwide are receiving vague "guidance" that funding can't be spent on DEI without any actual direction on what that means.
Scope unknown. The administration has provided little to no clarity over what programs it is blocking (or will block) funding for under this EO.
NIH Pause
National Institutes of Health
Tens of thousands of NIH grant applications and billions in NIH grant funding for lifesaving research across the country are paused.
An estimated $1 billion in lifesaving research funding has already been prevented from going out the door to institutions in every state since January 20.
Elon Musk and DOGE Actions
All agencies
Open question. Reports confirm DOGE sought access to central payment system to halt disbursements.
"
Other actions
All agencies
Unclear scope.
"
TOTAL
At least $396 billion
*Funding in Jeopardy: This reflects our best understanding, as of Saturday morning, February 15, of what funding is being illegally withheld. The administration has failed to provide clear answers, and the actual number could be higher. This lack of transparency and responsiveness to Congress, and thus the American people, is without precedent.
###

Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
