




telegraph.co.uk
February 4, 2025 Tuesday 2:33 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:11
Length: 1043 words
Byline: By Laura Donnelly, Health Editor
Highlight: Health Secretary says staff boasted of ‘anti-whiteness’ as part of ‘daft’ equality and inclusion agenda
Body


NHS staff boasted of their “anti-whiteness” stance, Wes Streeting has said in an attack on “misguided” diversity and inclusion agendas.
The   highlighted “some really daft things being done in the name of equality,   and inclusion” which he said were setting back its cause.
Speaking at an event on  , he said it was important to tackle health   in order to save lives.
Mr Streeting cited evidence showing   are twice as likely as white men to suffer prostate cancer, with   much more likely to die in childbirth compared with white counterparts.
But he said that attempts to tackle such disparities were too often being undermined by “ideological hobby horses” which he said needed to go.
Mr Streeting told the  : “Sometimes there are some really daft things being done in the name of equality, diversity and inclusion which undermine the cause.
“For example, there was one member of NHS staff who was merrily tweeting a job ad online and saying part of her practice was . 
“And I just thought ‘what the hell does that say to the bloke up in Wigan who’s more likely to die earlier than his more affluent white counterpart down in London?’. We’ve got real issues of inequality that affect working-class people.”
“The   hobby horses need to go,” the Health Secretary continued.
“What’s been lost, I think, with some well-meaning but misguided approaches to equality, diversity, inclusion, the clue is in the name – it’s equality; it should be applicable to everyone.”
Mr Streeting was understood to be referring to a post by a counselling psychologist working at . 
In it, Dr Florencia Gysbertha called for counselling psychology trainees or  in training to come forward for a placement in the NHS.
She said: “The trainee will be supervised by myself, a counselling psychologist, who integrates anti-whiteness/  praxis into supervision and approaches to clinical work.”
Mr Streeting said: “When we see health inequalities, whether they affect men or women, black people, white people, rich or poor, we’ve got to be take a much more evidence-based approach to those inequalities and say, if you’re on the wrong end of the stats, we want to deal with that to make sure we get equality of outcome.”
Earlier he said: “We’ve got to deal with these challenges against the backdrop at the moment, let’s be honest, where equality, diversity and inclusion is under a lot of spotlight and discussion.
“Now, I could get quite a lot of plaudits from quite a lot of people across the country… ‘You know what? NHS, tough times, I’m going to scrap all of those equality, diversity and inclusion people. We’ll save loads of money doing that, and we’ll divert the money into actual patient care’.
“Except, ask   about their experiences of being bullied in the workplace in an organisation that has had black people in it since it was founded pretty much…  , NHS foundation, same year, that generation built the NHS.
“You look at outcomes: prostate cancer, black men twice as likely to die of prostate cancer than white men; black women three times more likely to die in childbirth than white women. We’ve got some real racial inequalities here.”
East London NHS Foundation Trust (ELFT) said: “A post was shared last year by one colleague using their own social media which does not in any way represent the views, values or recruitment practices of the Trust and this matter was addressed internally.
“The Trust promotes equity, diversity and inclusion in all aspects of its work and services to the community.”
The Health Secretary said he was “really frustrated” last week to see the Government’s commitment to have a men’s health strategy pitted against its approach to . 
Mr Streeting came under fire from  , the Government’s women’s health ambassador for England, for plans to drop a target to expand women’s health hubs.
The Health Secretary said that plans to focus on inequalities that affect men would not mean deprioritising women.
“I don’t think that’s how my sister would feel about my health, and it’s certainly not how I feel about her health. So I think we’ve got to take a much better approach to this issue.
“Part of what I’m doing is kind of trying to win again the fundamental arguments for equality, diversity and inclusion when they are under attack,” he said.
It comes after   that NHS bosses were ignoring orders to scrap diversity jobs by hiring dozens of new equalities staff under Labour.
A new analysis found that 35 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) roles have been advertised since Sir Keir Starmer’s Government took power.
All but six of the positions allowed staff to work from home and some posts offered salaries of more than £80,000.
The 35 EDI roles advertised since July 5 are the equivalent of a diversity job every week under Labour.
Between them, the roles paid combined salaries of more than £750,000, which could have paid for more than 600 new hospital beds, analysis suggests.
Steve Barclay, who carried out the analysis, ordered NHS chiefs not to create specialist inclusion roles in 2023 during his time as Tory health secretary but many trusts ignored his instructions.
Mr Streeting has not reversed the order, speaking out last year about doing “daft things” in the name of diversity, but the NHS continues to argue diversity jobs are “important” in achieving good outcomes for patients.
East London NHS Foundation Trust said: “A post was shared last year by one colleague using their own social media which does not in any way represent the views, values or recruitment practices of the trust and this matter was addressed internally.
“The trust promotes equity, diversity and inclusion in all aspects of its work and services to the community.”
It comes after Donald Trump used his first day in office to sign an executive order aimed at ending diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives in the federal government.
The White House said Mr Trump “will freeze bureaucrat hiring except in essential areas to end the onslaught of useless and overpaid DEI activists buried into the federal workforce”.

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
