




Forbes.com
January 31, 2025 Friday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 709 words
Byline: Mary Whitfill Roeloffs, Forbes Staff
Highlight: The identities of all three crew members have now been released.
Body


Topline
The Army has identified the three crew members who died Wednesday when their Black Hawk helicoptercollidedwith a passenger jet over the Potomac River near Reagan Washington National Airport, killing all 67 people aboard both aircraft.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Roberto Marquez from Dallas, Texas, sets up a makeshift memorial for the victims of the deadly mid air collision near Reagan National Airport in Arlington, Virginia, on Jan. 31, 2025.
AFP via Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Key Facts
Ryan O'Hara, a husband with a 1-year-old son, was the crew chief of the helicopter and a victim in the crash, Georgia Gov. Brian Kempconfirmedon social media.
After graduating from Parkview High School in Lilburn, Georgia in 2014, O'Hara, a member of the school's Marine Corps Junior ROTC program, joined the military.
He has beenrememberedby colleagues as "one of the most dedicated, disciplined, and committed soldiers I've ever worked with. 
Chief Warrant Officer 2 Andrew Eaves of Mississippi was another crew member onboard the helicopter, Mississippi Governor Tate Reevesconfirmed.
In astatement, the Eaves family remembered him as a "kind, loving, fun-loving and patriotic man" who "loved his wife and kids fiercely and would have done anything to take care of them."
His wife, Carrie Eaves, posted to social media asking "for peace while we grieve. 
The Army on Saturday released astatementidentifying the third crew member as 28-year-old Capt. Rebecca M. Lobach, from Durham, North Carolina.
She had served as an aviation officer since 2019, and received awards including the Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, National Defense Service Medal and Army Service Ribbon, according to the statement.
The Lobach family in a statement called her  a warrior  who  would not hesitate to defend her country in battle,  noting she was  a distinguished military graduate in ROTC at the University of North Carolina, and was in the top 20% of cadets nationwide. 
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
Big Number
At least 18. That s how many military personnel have died from the crashes and mishaps of Army helicopters, including hard landings and other incidents, in the past two years. Fatalities from these incidents tally higher than those killed in recent combat operations abroad, according toThe New York Times.
Key Background
The three soldiers from the 12th Aviation Battalion out of Fort Belvoir, Va. were conducting an annual training exercise aboard the helicopter near Ronald Reagan National Airport when the crash occurred. The collision with an American Airlines passenger jet headed to Washington D.C. from Kansas killed the three people onboard the helicopter and the 64 passengers and crew on the commercial flight. The helicopter crew was described as "fairly experienced" by Secretary of DefensePete Hegseth, but President Donald Trump on Fridaysaidthe helicopter was flying  far above  its designated flight path. The air traffic control tower hadreportedlygiven the helicopter pilot permission to fly no higher than 200 feet, but the aircraft was outside its approved flight path at the time of the crash. In a press conference on Thursday, Trump blamed air traffic controllers, the helicopter pilots and Biden and Obama-era diversity hiring practices for the tragedy, claiming without evidence that people with  severe intellectual disabilities  had been hired at the FAA because of DEI policies he has since eliminated. Authorities were still looking for the helicopter s black box data recorder, Hegseth said Friday, and officials are investigating if the crew was using its night vision goggles.
Tangent
More than 40 bodies were recovered from the DC plane crash wreckage in the Potomac River as of early Friday afternoon.Victimsare slowly being identified by friends and family and so far include more than a dozen members of the U.S. National Figure Skating team, including two 12-year-olds, two former Russian world champion figure skaters, a civil rights lawyer, parents and students from Fairfax County Public Schools and a group of friends returning from a hunting trip in Kansas.
Further Reading

Load-Date: February 4, 2025


End of Document
