




Newsweek.com
January 20, 2025 Monday 5:21 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 746 words
Byline: Ewan Palmer
Highlight: The president-elect is expected to sign from 100 to 200 executive actions soon after his inauguration on Monday.
Body


President-elect  is expected to sign a host of executive orders soon after he is sworn back into the White House on Monday, addressing issues such as immigration, environmental regulations, and the January 6 attack.
Newsweek has contacted the Trump transition team for comment via email outside regular working hours.
Why It Matters
The legally binding orders the  will sign on his first day in office will set the tone for Trump's second term. The president-elect has previously said his sweeping 2024 election victory gives him a clear mandate from the American public to implement his campaign policies.
What to Know
Trump may sign more than 200 executive orders on his first day in office,  News and  reported, citing unnamed sources. Trump said he may issue  executive actions on Monday while speaking at a pre-inauguration dinner at the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C., on Sunday night.
Trump previewed his executive orders at an election victory rally at Capital One Arena in Washington on Sunday, telling the crowd they will be "extremely happy" with what he has planned.
Trump implied he will take action regarding the "hostages" convicted over the January 6 attack at the Capitol in 2021. The president-elect did not specify what action he would take, but has previously vowed to 
Other planned executive orders include declaring an emergency on the southern border and designating drug cartels as foreign terrorist organizations.
Trump is to also move to reinstate several policies rescinded by President . This includes relaunching  which required asylum-seekers to wait in Mexico for the duration of their court proceedings.
There are plans to rescind any diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives implemented during the Biden administration. Biden-era policies related to climate and energy, such as the electric vehicle mandate, will also reportedly be abolished by Trump later on Monday.
Trump is expected to projects, reversing the Biden administration's September 2023 decision to cancel leases as part of efforts to protect 13 million acres of wilderness, The Washington Postreported.
The president-elect is also  known as Schedule F, which he issued in October 2020, the Wall Street Journal reported. The order would strip federal employees of certain employment protections, making it easier for them to be fired.
Tech billionaire  and entrepreneur  have been chosen by Trump to lead the newly formed  to "dismantle" federal bureaucracy and reduce staffing in the new administration.
What People Are Saying
President-elect Donald Trump at Sunday's rally in Washington, D.C.: "Starting tomorrow, I will act with historic speed and strength and fix every single crisis facing our country. We have to do it. You're going to see executive orders that are going to make you extremely happy. Lots of them. Tomorrow, everybody in this very large arena will be very happy with my decision on the J6 hostages."
Trump during a speech at the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C., on Sunday: "Within hours of taking office, I will sign dozens of executive orders—close to 100 to be exact—many of which I will describe in my address tomorrow. We will not waste a single moment in delivering on our promises to the people. The Trump administration will again live by the motto, 'promises made, promises kept,' and we kept those promises. We had a very, very successful last administration, and this one, I think, is going to be even more successful—maybe a lot more successful."
Jason Miller, a senior adviser for Trump,  on Sunday: "Even beyond the executive orders, there will be executive actions that he'll be putting into place. We talk about 'Remain in Mexico,' ending 'Catch and Release,' the border policies, energy deregulation to allow drilling to get going again in a number of places, but also ending DEI and the wokeism that has really infected our federal government."
What Happens Next
Trump will be sworn in as president for the second time during an inauguration ceremony expected to begin around noon ET on Monday.
Many of Trump's executive orders could be challenged in court by  and liberal groups.


Graphic

 
Donald Trump in DC
Jim WATSON / AFP/Getty Images
President-elect Donald Trump speaks at a MAGA victory rally at Capital One Arena in Washington, DC on January 19, 2025, one day ahead of his inauguration ceremony. Trump is likely to sign dozens of executive orders at soon after his swearing-in ceremony on Monday.

Load-Date: January 20, 2025


End of Document
