




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 23, 2025 Thursday 3:23 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 585 words
Byline: Ivana Saric
Body


January 23rd, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
 
Why it matters: Trump's desire to dismantle diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives in the federal government's employment practices could  
Trump's  
What is the Equal Employment Opportunity Act?
Signed by Johnson in 1965,  
It prohibited employment discrimination and called on federal contractors to take affirmative action to ensure employees are treated equally, "without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin."
Johnson signed the act just a year after signing the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Congress later expanded on the executive order in the Equal Opportunity Employment Act of 1972, increasing the number of employees covered by the workplace protections and requiring state and local governments to follow the rules outlined.
What does Trump's executive order say?
Trump's expansive executive order states that "Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965 ... is hereby revoked."
The executive order claims that both the private and public sectors "have adopted and actively use dangerous, demeaning, and immoral race- and sex-based preferences," and that these DEI practices "can violate the civil-rights laws of this Nation."
It noted that federal contractors could continue complying with the act for the next 90 days.
Caveat: Trump's executive order targets the Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), which enforces Executive Order 11246.
It orders the OFCCP to "immediately cease" promoting diversity, holding federal contractors and subcontractors responsible for affirmative action practices, and "allowing or encouraging" those same entities "to engage in workforce balancing" on the basis of race, sex, sexual orientation, religion and nation of origin.
What's been the response?
Trump's executive order has already sparked outcry from civil rights leaders and advocacy groups.
"Diversity, equity, and inclusion are aligned with American values," National Urban League president  
Judy Conti, government affairs director of the National Employment Law Project, slammed Trump's executive order in a  
"This is not a return to so-called 'meritocracy.' Rather, it's an attempted return to the days when people of color, women, and other marginalized people lacked the tools to ensure that they were evaluated on their merits," Conti said.
Go deeper:


Editor's note: The story and headline have been corrected to note that Johnson's executive order was revoked by Trump (not the Equal Opportunity Employment Act signed by Congress).


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 28, 2025


End of Document
