




thetimes.co.uk
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1670 words
Byline: Kate Spicer
Highlight: The world’s biggest Alpha male love-in has a seedy side — it also has a weird one
Body


Two towns are swarming with the world’s most powerful people this week. But while Donald Trump’s inauguration was moved indoors for fear of the cold, in Davos, a group of global leaders attending the World Economic Forum (WEF) are embracing the elements, hiking a sunny Swiss Alpine trail a mile above sea level. But this is no normal hike; they walk in silence, save for the occasional cry of “Ha!”
Through wireless headsets with little blue lights, they listen to Alan Watts’s famous 
                   Who Am I?                   
 sermon and stirring repetitive beats. The plummy godfather of new-age spirituality’s invitation to contemplate the “self beyond” is beloved of bohemian crypto billionaires at the Burning Man festival, but this event is surely a first for the conservative “suits and boots” at the WEF.
Davos is the most famous business conference in the world. Away from the Congress Centre, where the official talks and panels take place, hundreds of events go on, and each year thousands of people fly in to network and strike business deals. Some do more than that. This largely alpha male love-in has a darker side, and four years ago 

 exposed how prostitution and predatory behaviour were undermining the event’s stated aim to tackle some of the biggest global problems, including gender inequality. 

So who better for the WEF to invite to Davos than a foundation called Unlocking Eve? It’s the brainchild of Eva McLellan and Kaye Vitug, two American senior executives at the Swiss pharmaceutical company Rochewho had a vision for the future of leadership early in the pandemic. “Data from multiple sources indicated countries led by women experienced six times fewer deaths, and would go on to significantly better economic recovery, ” McLellan says. 
This inspired a project — separate to their work — to create an “integrated leadership model” to “stop rewarding the downsides of the masculine and the feminine” traits in business. “Both of us have been on a journey here,” McLellan says. “We’ve done the downside of the feminine — people-pleasing, overempathetic — and we’ve fallen into the downside of the masculine rabbit hole: competitiveness and aggression. It doesn’t work for men, doesn’t work for women.”
Their mission: to reach 100 million leaders by 2030, “be it a nurse leading a team of seven to the leader of a blue-chip company”.
First presenting at Davos in2022
                   ,                    
Unlocking Eve attracted interest from the progressive leadership crowd that includes Julie Brown, the former Burberry chief financial officer now at GlaxoSmithKline, multiple business school professors, healthcare CEOs, Vesna-Kerstin Petric, the chair of the World Health Organisation, and Halla Tomasdottir, chief executive of Richard Branson B’s Team initiative at the time, now the second female president of Iceland. Every year they are invited back and recruit more to the cause. 
How to cut through the noise at Davos? By hooking up with Sanctum, the pioneers of a clubby wellbeing regimen combining “kundalini yoga, martial arts, animalistic flow, breathwork and primal fitness”, and hosting a series of euphoric and intention-setting events in the mountains to convince a throng of the world’s most powerful people that the future is integrated leadership. 
Much of the experience is delivered via the joyful and hypnotic words of Luuk Melisse, a muscular 31-year-old former dancer and the co-founder of Sanctum, who guides the bobbing blue lights on Harvard and Insead-educated heads through what must inevitably be known as “a journey”. He chants new mantras purely for this audience. It’s about integrated leadership, unlocking a person’s “grounded flexibility” and “integrated capacity”. 
“You have the power of two within you: yin/yang, rational/intuitive, masculine/feminine, autonomous/relational,” he says. “You have all this wisdom within yourself, in relation to others, and beyond into the human systems we lead.”

The crowd are guided through a series of jerky movements that, to be honest, look like old-school aerobics mixed with some more esoteric rocking and swaying designed to “open our hearts in the middle of the circus of Davos”. “From breakdown to breakthrough … let’s make things a little more ugly,” Melisse says, then urges the group not to feel disheartened by the dismantling of DEIs and ESGs. Such acronyms don’t usually figure in Sanctum events, which take place in luxury hotels or on beaches in the Maldives and Ibiza as well as more humble settings in India. Their brand of spiritual fitness is taking off in a big way; even on the streets here, their fans approach Melisse. 
I ask McLellan what DEI and ESG stand for, and she says, “Surely everyone knows?” (For the record, they are “diversity, equity and inclusion” and “environmental, social and governance-based investing frameworks”.)
McLellan is 39 and what’s known as a YGL, a young global leader, a sort of WEF OBE bestowed by older leaders on (at the time) promising young leaders including the French president, Emmanuel Macron, and the former prime ministers Sanna Marin, Jacinda Ardern and David Cameron. Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg are also YGLs. Ah yes, them; the men of the hour who lined up behind Donald Trump at his inauguration this week.
The US president looms over proceedings here too but is often left nameless. As McLellan likes to say, “Focus on the doughnut not the hole.” Al Gore, the former US vice-president turned environmentalist, will talk at a dinner of Unlocking Eve’s peers, those business leaders who consider themselves the good capitalists, who acknowledge capitalism is causing problems. The sort who, Gore tells them, “do not give in to despair. The antidote to despair is action.” 
The headsets come to a rest and Sanctum’s cathartic mantra rings out: “Ha! Ha! Ha!” There are a lot of beatific smiles as the crowd are told to put their hands on their hearts while Watts spins more new-age riddles about getting lost in the entanglements of our minds. “You might not be the you you think you are …” 
It was on an occasion like this, but closer to sea level at a Mediterranean wellbeing festival, that McLellan first approached the Sanctum founder Gab Olszewski and said: “I have a feeling we have to create something. How do you feel about coming to Davos?” But, she says, “Unlocking Eve is about an elevated state of being via practising not yoga, not meditation, but good leadership. This isn’t some flowery feeling; it’s a fact driven by contemporary empirical evidence.”

Isn’t it a tricky time to be pushing for “integration”, I ask, given all the disintegration and masculine energy radiating from multiple nations right now? Zuckerberg has decried Meta’s “neutered” corporate culture and called for society to “celebrate aggression a bit more”. 
McLellan offers a positive spin on this. “I don’t celebrate aggression but assertiveness, its positive counterpart; it’s essential in all leaders. We don’t operate in polarities. You know that Davos has a top ten risks for the world, and No 3 is polarisation. People are thinking and talking about this; the conversation is not confined to professors at business schools or tents at Davos. Great, it’s mainstream. Let’s talk.” Privately she’s less gung-ho. “Of course it’s disappointing, it’s clear we are facing a period of active resistance.”
In a way the WEF’s annual meeting is like a detox retreat for capitalists. A cynic might say it’s all about ideological blether about saving the world to make the rich and powerful feel good about themselves. The protesters down the road who can’t breach the multiple layers of security view it as an AGM of largely unelected, powerful people who fly in on private jets to preach about climate change and decide humanity’s fate.
Standing by the door at one of the Unlocking Eve/Sanctum experiences in a place called the ICEhouse (innovation for the circular economy), I ask a couple who leave halfway through the session, “Too much?” 
“Not at all, but we want to go to Ocean Mother’s 108-minute meditation.” She’s going to “open a portal”, apparently. “So much to do.” Nicole Schwab, the daughter of the founder of the WEF and chair of its forum of young global leaders, is leading a meditation here. “You’ve got your business leaders things, you go to your wellness things, but at Unlocking Eve we integrate them to get our message across,” McLellan says. 

The concept of spirituality in the workplace is not odd any more. “We have office meditation corners at 7am and two of my senior managers are reiki masters,” McLellan says. Buddhist monks and happiness gurus have long glided the corridors of companies like Google, “but that can all feel pretty bolted on. Plus it’s a lot of pressure on the monk, don’t you think? What we aim to do is bring the monk within.
“We can give people all the intellectual material and the training, data, empirical evidence, studies and reports that show integrated leadership is the key to healing the world, but to really embed it in their minds you have to embody this in an experience.”
The suits and boots take a moment before dashing to the Harvard dinner, or any of the other 100 functions happening here tonight, and allow themselves a little window in the diary to bask in the afterglow of the two-hour long Sanctum class, journey, experience … whatever you want to call it.
The chief executive of a Zurich-based reinsurance company has enjoyed himself. “I let go of a bit of old stuff,” he says, but remains to be entirely convinced. We look over the road in the direction of the bakery that has been taken over for the week by Palantir, the data analysis software company owned by the billionaire Peter Thiel. “Not everyone’s into this. Not the Maga lot.”


Load-Date: January 23, 2025


End of Document
