




Newsweek.com
February 13, 2025 Thursday 2:24 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 760 words
Byline: Suzanne Blake
Highlight: The movement, Shutdown 315, is calling for Americans to stop making purchases from major corporations on March 15.
Body


A group is urging Americans to come together on March 15 in a nationwide shutdown, and Newsweek spoke to experts about what the effects could be.
The movement, Shutdown 315, is calling for Americans to stop making purchases from major corporations, end  and even not come to work on March 15 as a way to "fight back" against a "broken system."
Why It Matters
Several movements have popped up in response to company responses to 's administration.
The People's Union is also planning a  on February 28 in an effort to boycott major retailers that have pulled back on  as a response to Trump's executive orders.
American sentiment toward Trump's recent executive orders has been mixed. While nearly 80 percent of  supported Trump's end of DEI offices, only around 10 percent of  said the same. Among Independents, just over 40 percent were in favor.
What To Know
The shutdown is set to take place on March 15, and everything from consumer behavior to workplaces and social media could be impacted.
"CALLING ALL AMERICANS  ARE SICK AND TIRED. Now is the time to fight back !!! #Shutdown315," reads a post on X from @NKBForProgress.
In a flyer distributed to followers, the movement calls for Americans to participate if they're "feeling unheard and ignored by the government" as well as those watching their constitutional rights be "disregarded" and "discriminated against."
Participants are also engaging in the shutdown because of inflation, lack of affordable housing, healthcare costs and social media's widespread influence, according to the post.
As part of the shutdown, Americans will stop buying from large corporations, including , ,  and . If you must buy something, small, local businesses are preferred.
Participants are also removing all social media apps on their phones, targeting , X and  among others.
Netflix, , DoorDash and other subscription services will also be a part of the boycott.
The group also asks for Americans to stop working "if feasible," with healthcare and essential workers excluded from that group.
Shutdown 315 also asks for "no unnecessary travel" and to "avoid spending any money."
"We're demanding a government that works for the people, protects our rights and creates a future we can believe in," the group said on X. "This is our duty! As stated in the Declaration of Independence, it is the right of the people to remove a government that no longer serves them. We will do this nonviolently, legally, and in full exercise of our constitutional rights."
What People Are Saying
Alex Beene, a financial literacy instructor for the University of Tennessee at Martin, told Newsweek: "While one-day blackouts can be moderately effective, a protest like Shutdown 315 is one that can truly concern major corporations because its effects are meant to be continuous instead of once. This particular shutdown is calling for Americans to avoid buying from major retailers, support local businesses, and cut ties with everything from streaming services to non-essential travel. Calls for lasting effects like this one can certainly have a major impact on the bottom lines of many major employers, but I would caution those looking to support this initiative to do what's best for them and their families. Asking someone to quit their job may sound effective from a social impact standpoint, but not having a paycheck is not a good strategy for your financial life."
Kevin Thompson, a finance expert and the founder and CEO of 9i Capital Group, told Newsweek: "Shutdown 315 appears to be a more structured, long-term initiative encouraging consumers to disengage from large retail chains in favor of shopping locally. While this could have some impact, many small businesses still rely on major retailers for sourcing their products. The most significant effect could come from a sustained reduction in overall consumer spending. If a large portion of the population actively cuts back on purchases, the consequences will be felt not only by corporate giants but also across the economy."
What Happens Next
While the shutdown could cause a decline in corporate profits, there are potentially more widespread economic consequences as well, Thompson said.
"Such a shift could lead to decreased corporate profits, potential layoffs, and broader economic slowdown," Thompson said. "The administration may also use these movements as a scapegoat if economic conditions worsen."


Graphic

 
Target
Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images
Facade of Target store with bold red signage and parking area on a clear day, San Ramon, California, January 18, 2025.

Load-Date: February 13, 2025


End of Document
