




Business Insider
February 15, 2025 Saturday 08:59 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 894 words
Byline: aaltchek@insider.com (Ana Altchek,Ayelet Sheffey)
Highlight: President Donald Trump's plans to slash the federal workforce are underway. BI spoke to four federal workers who voted for Trump on their thoughts.
Body


Trump's plan to reshape the federal workforce is underway.
Some federal workers told BI they voted for Trump thinking he would help the economy and struggling Americans.
While they support cutting government waste, some don't think all federal workers should be targeted.
 and despair at President Donald Trump's workforce mandates - but what about those who filled in the bubble next to his name on the ballot?
"I voted for Trump. I wanted to see some positive change," a federal employee of 17 years told Business Insider, adding that they didn't know that change would put them at risk of losing their job.
While some of the hot-button issues Trump is tackling, like eliminating DEI initiatives and cutting spending, may resonate with right-leaning workers, policies like remote work and cutting the government's head count haven't traditionally been partisan matters.
As of Thursday, about buyout offer. That's about 3.75% of the federal workforce, inching closer to the White House's goal of reducing the federal staff count by 5% to 10%.
Four federal employees who say they voted for Trump spoke to Business Insider about their feelings on Trump's approach to the federal workforce. BI granted their requests for anonymity and verified their identities.
Trump voters said they support the cost-cutting mission
While the federal workers BI spoke with don't fully support certain policies affecting them, some stand by the overall mission to reduce government waste.
One federal worker told BI that they don't understand why some government agencies have so many employees.
"They're uncovering a lot of waste and abuse there," the worker said about DOGE. "I just can't believe some of the stuff that they're finding which is a total waste of taxpayer money."
, who leads DOGE - a Trump-created commission aimed at slashing government waste - has vowed to target a range of existing federal programs, includingthat goes to veterans' healthcare and NASA.
"This is the reason why people voted for Trump," the worker told BI. "Because what is the government doing? Why aren't they forthcoming? Why? People want answers."
While the worker said they understand why some people may be annoyed to return to the office full-time, they said: "Somebody needs to put their foot down."
Another federal worker said they disagree with focusing on federal workers without better understanding the various programs and the need for federal employees to keep them going. That said, they see value in looking at where money is being spent, and they're overall supportive of Trump.
For example, the worker said they support the administration's approach with the US Agency for International Development. Trump and Musk have both called USAID out for wastefulness and supporting liberal causes. A federal judge  Trump's funding freeze on the agency and his attempt to put thousands of workers on leave.
USAID spent $32.5 billion in global aid in 2024. About a quarter of the money went toward humanitarian efforts, another quarter to health and population initiatives, and additional funds were directed toward governance and administrative expenses.
"I think overall we're going to end up better off with him as a president," they said.
Some had concerns about targeting the federal workforce
The 17-year federal employee said they voted for Trump thinking he would help the economy and struggling Americans. Now, the worker said they feel like the president is making things worse by putting federal workers' livelihoods at risk.
"Do Trump and Musk know the whole situation of every federal building? I don't think they're making proper choices," the worker said.
They added that while they agree with Trump's goal to cut government waste, they don't agree that cutting the federal workforce and requiring all employees to return to the office full time is an effective approach.
Another federal worker who said they voted for Trump twice "had hope that he would fulfill his promises," but that hope disappeared after the administration's deferred resignation offers. The Office of Personnel Management offered federal employees the option to resign and receive pay through September, but this offer is now on pause due to ongoing litigation.
One worker said the way they've gone about the federal workforce changes is a "little disconcerting." The worker said while they understand Musk is only there for so long, it seems like they're "getting rid of people very quickly."
The worker also has concerns about returning to work in person because they moved out of DC. The worker said it would be a financial burden to return to the office.
A federal worker said they reached out to their senators and congressman and told them that "demonizing the federal workforce is not good." They said federal workers have performance reviews, meet with supervisors, and act in compliance with their mission.
"Don't take it out on us just because of the bad behavior of the prior administration," the worker told BI, adding that they haven't changed their stance on supporting Trump because "it shouldn't have come to this."
Got a tip or anything you'd like to share? Reach out securely on Signal at asheffey.97 or via email at  or .
Read the original article on


Load-Date: February 15, 2025


End of Document
