




thetimes.co.uk
January 20, 2025 Monday 8:35 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 1502 words
Byline: Hugh Tomlinson, Washington | Samuel Lovett, New York
Highlight: The new president acted immediately after his inauguration on areas ranging from deportations to TikTok
Body


Donald Trump issued dozens of executive orders on Monday as he vowed to upend every aspect of American life within hours of his return to the White House.
In the promised blitz of presidential decrees, Trump ordered troops to the southern border, renamed American landmarks and took aim at the constitution itself, reversing many of Joe Biden’s signature policies and reimposing his agenda from day one.
In a classic piece of political theatre, Trump signed his first orders on stage at a desk in Washington’s basketball stadium, roared on by thousands of supporters: 
He then returned to the White House to sign another set:
                   What is an executive order?                   
They are directives issued by the president that have the force and power of a law. Many orders typically come into effect immediately, but others take months for an agency to implement.
They cannot be used to violate existing law or the constitution, and can only redefine or amend the enforcement of existing congressional and state legislation. They are also forbidden from introducing rules or actions deemed “arbitrary and capricious”. Orders can be challenged or overturned in the courts if a president is found to have lacked authority to issue them, or if the order is deemed unconstitutional.
Trump’s flurry of orders represents the most radical policy overhaul in decades on immigration, energy, climate and diversity initiatives. Many of them are expected to be challenged in court almost immediately.

Immigration
This issue was the cornerstone of Trump’s election campaign and on Monday he issued a raft of ten orders in a sweeping crackdown on border security. The directives underscored the new administration’s determination to deliver on its campaign promise to seal the border and 

 of millions of undocumented migrants.
Within minutes of Trump’s address, his administration ended an online lottery system for asylum seekers, launched under Biden through the CBP One app. The scheme has allowed almost one million people to enter the US and gain eligibility to work.
Declaring a state of national emergency, Trump ordered the Pentagon to deploy US troops to America’s southern border and directed the government to resume work on the border wall begun during his first term in office.
A second order reinstates the “remain in Mexico” programme imposed during Trump’s first term that requires asylum seekers to wait south of the border for a hearing in US immigration courts. The order was repealed by Biden in his first weeks in office in 2021, leading to a surge in border crossings by undocumented migrants.
Cartels and international gangs were designated as “global terrorists”, expanding the powers of the government to use military force to target human traffickers and drug smuggling and to seize the assets of gang members.

One of the most controversial orders attempts to end birthright citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants. The US constitution guarantees the right of citizenship for those born on American soil, and Trump’s attempt to overturn it raises the prospect of a bitter legal battle. “That’s a big one,” Trump said as he signed the order, declaring birthright citizenship “ridiculous” and adding: “We’re the only country in the world that does this.”
Energy
Declaring a “national energy emergency”, Trump moved to sweep away restrictions on oil and gas exploration and usher in a new age of American “energy dominance”.
A separate order reversed Biden’s restrictions on 

 on millions of acres of federal land in Alaska. Trump’s order pledges to “unleash Alaska’s natural resource potential”, a move supported by Republican officials in the state but which has appalled environmental groups.
Trump also eliminated Biden’s “electric vehicle mandate” requiring car manufacturers to cut greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2027.
As he did in his first term, Trump signed an order that withdraws the US from the Paris climate accord, once again removing the second-largest emitter of carbon dioxide from the global effort to tackle climate change. Under UN rules, leaving the agreement will take a year, but the order signals that Trump will not be bound by carbon emissions targets as he vows to “drill, baby, drill”.
January 6 rioters
Fulfilling a campaign promise to the Maga faithful, Trump announced pardons for hundreds of his supporters sentenced over the 

 at the Capitol four years ago. Among those freed to be 

, the former leader of the Proud Boys far-right militia, who was convicted of seditious conspiracy and jailed for 22 years for leading the attack in an attempt to halt confirmation of Biden’s 2020 election victory.
Trump confirmed he had issued full pardons for all but 14 of about 1,500 “hostages” charged over the riot. Those 14 sentences — thought to be convictions for violent offences — have been commuted pending further investigation, Trump said.
Government and Doge
Trump has tasked Elon Musk to head a new Department of Government Efficiency (Doge), with the goal of slashing red tape and cutting billions of dollars from the federal budget. It emerged on Monday that Vivek Ramaswamy, initially appointed co-head of the department, was stepping down in favour of running for governor of Ohio. 
The president announced a freeze on all hiring across the federal government except the military and ordered all staff to return to the office full-time. In a separate order, Trump aims to sweep away decades-old protections for civil servants that will make it easier for them to be fired. Federal workers were ordered to return to the office after the pandemic.
Doge was sued within minutes of Trump’s inauguration by National Security Counselors, a public interest law firm that alleges the group was breaking a 1972 transparency law that regulates non-government committees.
Justice and free speech
Lashing out at the justice system that pursued him until his victory in November, Trump issued an order ending the “weaponisation of government against the political adversaries of the previous administration”.
A second order will restore freedom of speech and bar government censorship, he said.
Defence
Trump pledged to begin building an Iron Dome air defence system covering the US, modelled on Israel’s missile shield. Military observers have questioned whether America needs an Iron Dome, and if such an expansive one is even possible.
TikTok
Trump waded into the legal battle over the 

 before the inauguration, vowing to save the popular video-sharing app that he tried to shut down during his first term. The app went dark in the US on Saturday evening as a security law threatens to ban it unless it divests from Chinese ownership.
Defying Congress and the Supreme Court, which upheld the ban last week, Trump issued an order that extends the grace period for TikTok to find an approved buyer.
DEI and transgender rights
Tapping into a culture war obsession among conservatives, Trump slashed diversity, equity and inclusion programmes and declared that under his leadership, the US government will recognise only two genders: male and female. In a further blow for transgender rights, the orders prevent people from changing their sex on US passports.
Trump announced that federal funds would not be used to promote “gender ideology” or pay for gender transition surgery. Trump’s order blocks requirements at government facilities that transgender people be referred to using pronouns that align with their chosen gender.
Geography
Trump also set about redrawing the map of America itself. The Gulf of Mexico was rechristened the Gulf of America, while the country’s highest mountain, Denali, returns to its former name of Mount McKinley, reversing an order issued by Barack Obama in 2015.
The president trailed renaming the Gulf of Mexico in a press conference at his Mar-a-Lago estate earlier this month, suggesting the new name had a “beautiful ring” to it. Obama renamed Mount McKinley after a decades-long campaign by the state of Alaska on behalf of the indigenous Koyukon people.
Trump is a longstanding admirer of McKinley, however. Praising the former president in his address for making America rich “through tariffs and talent”, Trump vowed to restore McKinley’s name to the mountain “where it belongs”.
                   World Health Organisation                    
One of Trump’s final day one orders confirmed America’s withdrawal from the World Health Organisation, which will deprive the agency of funding and resources. He previously pulled the US out in 2020 over its handling of the Covid pandemic, before Biden renewed the country’s membership.
Tariffs
Trump did not sign an order on trade on Monday but said he still planned to impose tariffs of 25 per cent on Canada and Mexico from February 1. He has threatened to do so if they do not curb the flow of drugs and migrants into the US.

Load-Date: January 24, 2025


End of Document
