




thetimes.co.uk
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 6:40 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 806 words
Byline: Josie Ensor, New York | Alistair Dawber, Washington
Highlight: The president signed an executive order to ‘eliminate’ the department — but it doesn’t mean it’s happened
Body


President Trump has signed an executive order to dismantle the Department of Education, his first step in a two-pronged plan to turn its power over to individual states. 
“It sounds strange, doesn’t it? Department of Education. We’re going to eliminate it,” the president told a signing ceremony at the White House on March 20. 
The attempt to overhaul American schooling has delighted Republicans who complain of declining academic standards and the ascendancy of a “woke” left-wing agenda. Experts describe it as an “extraordinary” move, even in the climate of the administration’s recent . 
The US Department of Education employs about 4,400 people and has an annual budget of $79 billion. That makes it one of the smallest executive departments and one of the most misunderstood. Unlike the British Department for Education, the US department is not responsible for setting the curriculum, which is down to individual states.
The department administers federal funding to schools and universities, manages the student loan and student aid programmes, and sets accountability standards for higher education. The department says its primary and secondary education programmes serve more than 50 million students in about 98,000 public schools and 32,000 private schools.
Trump has said the federal government should not have control over schools because it is, in his words, staffed with bureaucrats who “hate our children”. He has suggested the Department of Education is teaching children “anti-American” and “woke” ideologies on race and gender by funding unspecified institutions and curricula.
In line with his agenda to cut regulations, Trump’s vision is to shift power to parents, teachers and state officials.
Republicans have been trying to kill the department since it was first established as a cabinet-level agency under   in 1979. All attempts have so far failed.
The executive order unveiled on March 20 is said to be the first in a two-step plan to dismantle the department. While Trump promised to “eliminate” the department, the White House press secretary, Karoline Leavitt, clarified that it would continue to perform “critical functions”, adding: “The Department of Education will be much smaller than it is today.”
The order directs Linda McMahon, the education secretary Trump told to “put herself out of a job”, to oversee the curtailing of the department. The critical functions to remain in place include oversight of certain grants and student loans, and enforcement of civil rights laws. The department will also continue to meet the needs of students with disabilities and to oversee funding for school districts with a high proportion of low income families, administration officials said. 
The second step in Trump’s plan would be to push Congress to pass legislation to officially close it down.
A bill to shut the department would probably fall short of the necessary super-majority of 60 votes in the Senate, given Republicans hold the chamber only by 53 to 47. The president could instead try to erode as many of its responsibilities as it can, to the point of making the department redundant in all but name.

Mike Rounds, a Republican senator from South Dakota, introduced the first bill of the new era trying to dissolve the department late last year. He suggested distributing its roles among the Department of Health and Human Services, the Treasury and the Department of the Interior.
Elon Musk’s  , known as Doge, began working inside the Department of Education, looking to cut spending and staff, in the early weeks of Trump’s presidency.
Dozens of employees at the department have been   as part of the Trump administration’s larger effort to rid the federal workforce of employees associated with diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programmes.
Educational instruction and the curriculum are already the responsibilities of state and local governments, so there will be no radical change there. However, it could mean reduced federal funding for primary and secondary schools, which could affect salaries, hiring and resources.
Economic analysts say it could result in the loss of 6 per cent of teachers’ jobs nationwide.
Among the suggestions is to target the $18 billion Title I programme, which provides school districts with funding geared toward low-income students. In its place, it has been suggested states would receive block grants with no regulations or federal oversight. This would allow state administrators to decide where funding should go, not necessarily based on need.
Education experts say many states would not use Title I federal money to aid poor families if it was not specifically allocated for that purpose.

Load-Date: June 25, 2025


End of Document
