




Newsweek.com
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 5:16 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 857 words
Byline: Suzanne Blake
Highlight: The grassroots organization is looking to fight against corporate rollback of DEI initiatives by taking back purchasing power.
Body


A group staging a  at the end of the month is going to cut off all  for 24 hours.
Called the People's Union, the grassroots organization is looking to fight back against  by holding back consumer purchasing.
Why It Matters
President  has issued an executive order ending an array of diversity, equity and inclusion, or DEI, initiatives at the federal level and beyond. This means funds could be frozen for companies that do not comply with the order, and any messaging that promotes is also forbidden.
So far, Trump's order has caused  to close its DEI office. Major companies like ,  and  are also taking steps to dissolve DEI initiatives.
The People's Union economic blackout is on February 28, and the group is also staging an Amazon boycott from March 7 to 14. During the economic blackout, participants are pledging to not make any purchases, either online or at brick-and-mortar stores.
What To Know
The People's Union was formed as a way for Americans to take power back from politicians and corporations, according to the group's website.
"The People's Union is not just about resisting corruption, it is about exposing it. For decades, corporations, politicians, and industries have worked together to rig the system against the American people," the group's website states.
It continues: "They have built an economy designed to exploit workers, suppress wages, and keep the majority of us in a constant state of struggle. These are the forces that have stolen our financial freedom, manipulated our government, and kept power in the hands of the wealthy elite."
The People's Union is specifically targeting Amazon,  and Best Buy on February 28, but the group is also asking boycotters to refrain from spending money on fast food or gas. If consumers must make purchases, they are asked to buy only from small, local businesses.
According to the website, the founder of the organization is a Queens, New York, native named John, or TheOneCalledJai, on social media.
He writes on the website: "I started meditating when I was six years old, not because someone taught me, but because I needed a way to escape the pain of my home life. And over the years, that practice deepened. Eventually, I walked away from everything else and dedicated my life to meditation, mindfulness, and guiding others. I became certified in multiple disciplines and have spent years helping people awaken to something bigger than themselves." John writes on the website.
He goes on: "And that's when it all became clear. Everything I had felt since I was a child, that this system is rigged, that we are being used, that human beings were not born to be industrial slaves, was true. And it didn't matter what religion, spiritual belief, or political affiliation someone had. The system is designed to keep all of us trapped."
What People Are Saying
The People's Union says on its website: "Mega corporations have driven up prices, underpaid their workers, and outsourced jobs while raking in record profits. Banks and financial institutions have trapped generations in debt, inflating interest rates and making homeownership nearly impossible. Politicians 'both left and right' have accepted corporate bribes, passed laws that serve billionaires, and ignored the needs of the people they claim to represent. The system has been designed to keep us powerless, but that ends now."
Kevin Thompson, founder and CEO of 9i Capital Group, told Newsweek: "The idea originated from grassroots efforts, driven by individuals who want to shift the narrative and regain control over corporate influence. The People's Union has been gaining traction online, and their efforts highlight the power of economic activism. I've always believed that voting is key to change in this country, but even more powerful than your vote is your wallet."
Alex Beene, a financial literacy instructor at the University of Tennessee at Martin, told Newsweek: "While these blackouts are normally done with the hope of positive implications, the reality is, past data indicates they lead to little financial data from most major companies. At the end of the day, even if consumers support the cause, they're going to continue to fulfill their purchasing needs and desires."
Michael Ryan, founder and CEO of MichaelRyanMoney.com, told Newsweek: "This protest's real power lies in its potential for escalation. If the People's Union follows through with planned longer-term boycotts, we could see significant shifts in how corporations balance profit margins against social responsibility. Smart investors are already watching this movement closely."
What Happens Next
The February 28 economic blackout's financial impact on businesses may be minimal, but Thompson said there could larger implications after the boycott ends.
"While the impact of a one-day boycott may be limited, its true power lies in mobilizing a like-minded community. If this initiative sparks a larger movement, its long-term influence could extend far beyond February 28," he said.


Graphic

 
Trump
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
WASHINGTON, DC - FEBRUARY 03: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks to reporters in the Oval Office of the White House on February 03, 2025 in Washington, DC.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
