




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 7, 2025 Friday 8:16 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 878 words
Byline: Ivana Saric
Body


February 7th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The   
Why it matters: While DOGE has little institutional authority on paper, in practice it has charged ahead with the most drastic gutting of the federal bureaucracy recent memory at President Trump's behest.
What is DOGE?
President Trump established DOGE via  
The order didn't actually create a new office, but rather renamed the Obama-era  
Although it's named as a "department," DOGE isn't an official cabinet-level government entity.
Between the lines: The department's name is a winking reference to Musk's joke cryptocurrency  
Who is in DOGE?
Musk, one of Trump's most influential backers, has been tasked with leading DOGE.
As such, he has been granted   
As for the rest of DOGE, little information is available about who Musk's operatives are, a fact Democrats have decried.
"No information has been provided to Congress or the public as to who has been formally hired under DOGE, under what authority or regulations DOGE is operating, or how DOGE is vetting and monitoring its staff and representatives," Senate Democrats wrote in a   
The big picture: Despite the secrecy, reports have proliferated about DOGE's team members.
On Thursday, a  
Vice President JD Vance, whose   
Vance's post came in response to Musk posting an  
Zoom in: DOGE staffers come from a variety of backgrounds, though few have had experience working in the federal government,  
Tom Krause, 47, a former software CEO, helped DOGE gain access to the Treasury Department's payment system.
Edward Coristine, 19, a recent college graduate who previously interned at Musk's Neuralink, is one of the DOGE staffers detailed to the  
Steve Davis, 45, a longtime Musk associate at SpaceX,  
Gavin Kliger, 25, is another DOGE member who is working as a senior adviser at OPM. Kliger has a history of reposting racist and misogynistic content online,  
What has DOGE been doing?
DOGE has swept through federal agency after federal agency, gaining access to internal systems and leading the charge to gut career civil servants.
Musk has trained him ire on the   
Treasury Secretary   
DOGE representatives have   
DOGE also gained   
What legal authority does DOGE have?
Musk's ability to plow forward with DOGE's overhaul has been questioned by Democrats and some Republicans.
Senate Minority Leader   
Senate Appropriations Chair Susan Collins (R-Maine) has  
Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) has also  
Who is fighting DOGE?
Lawsuits have played a key role in slowing at least some of DOGE's churn through the federal bureaucracy.
A federal judge on Thursday   
A coalition of labor groups  
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
