




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 31, 2025 Friday 5:32 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 1093 words
Byline: Ivana Saric
Body


January 31st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The  
Why it matters: President Trump's desire to shape an "America first" foreign policy - which was  
The U.S. government is the single largest humanitarian donor in the world, according to the  
The foreign aid freeze undermines the U.S.' standing as a "reliable and credible partner" for its allies when they face crises, Michelle Strucke, director of the Humanitarian Agenda and Human Rights initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), told Axios.
Driving the news: The State Department   
The freeze also includes a review of all federal assistance programs to ensure they align with Trump's foreign policy agenda.
The only initial exemptions were for emergency food programs and military aid to Israel and Egypt were exempted from the freeze, per  
Zoom in: Amid widespread confusion and upheaval across the humanitarian sector, Secretary of State Marco Rubio  
The  
It specified that it would not include areas targeted by the Trump administration, such as "activities that involve abortions, family planning conferences gender or DEI ideology programs, transgender surgeries, or other non-life saving assistance."
Between the lines: Despite the State Department's efforts to clarify the terms of the freeze,  
Many humanitarian organizations are still seeking clarity on what qualifies as "life-saving" assistance, the  
Asia Russell, executive director of Health GAP, an advocacy organization focused on HIV treatment that collaborates with groups impacted by the freeze, told Axios the new waiver was "meaningless" and that "massive disruptions are still in effect and threatening literally millions of lives."
"People are right to be confused, because there's only been a two paragraph communication," she said, denouncing the lack of guidance of how to implement the waiver in practice.
Even once a guidance is issued, the chaos is likely to continue. "When you trigger massive ... programs to fire their staff, they can't start back up again overnight," Russell noted.
The State Department did not immediately respond to Axios' request for comment.
What is foreign assistance?
Foreign assistance is a conduit for helping the U.S. achieve its foreign policy goals.
This foreign aid is often distributed by the government in the form of grants to support projects implemented by NGOs, businesses, foreign governments, or even U.S. government agencies, per a Nov. 2024 report from the  
Foreign assistance can also come in the form of direct budget assistance - essentially, cash - to foreign governments and multilateral organizations, like the UN, per the report.
By the numbers: The U.S. spent roughly $70 billion in foreign assistance in the 2022 fiscal year, the latest year for which comprehensive data is available, the CRS report stated.
This accounted for about 1% of the total federal budget.
What kinds of humanitarian aid is included?
U.S. foreign assistance is critical to sustaining a plethora of humanitarian and relief efforts around the world.
In 2024, the U.S. provided  
Foreign assistance grants are also critical to sustaining the work done by public health organizations and  
The big picture: In the wake of the freeze, public health partners and contractors that work with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) were ordered to halt the supply of critical drugs for the treatment of HIV, malaria and tuberculosis as part of the freeze,  
This includes programs like the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), created by former President George W. Bush.
The State Department's backpedaling with the issuance of a humanitarian aid waiver has still led to disruptions for PEPFAR, with many health clinics in southern Africa remaining closed amid the confusion, the  
For some clinics, there has been "absolute chaos" around the dispensing of HIV-related medications and the processing of blood samples, Russell noted.
Former USAID official      
What else does foreign assistance cover?
Some U.S. foreign assistance falls outside of the scope of traditional humanitarianism.
Charles Lister, director of the Middle East Institute's Syria and Countering Terrorism & Extremismprograms, pointed out in an  
In the wake of the aid freeze, some camp guards stopped showing up for work. The State Department quickly worked to push through an exemption and resume funding Tuesday, Lister posted  
"We narrowly escaped disaster and it just shows this team has no idea what they're doing," an unnamed U.S. official told  
State of play: Counterterrorism is an "objective of a significant amount of U.S. foreign assistance," Strucke told Axios.
Foreign assistance can also include funding for counternarcotics operations in places like Colombia, an initiative that the first Trump administration prioritized, she added.
Cutting off funding for such operations could lead to increased drug trafficking, including into the U.S., she noted.
For  
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
