




MailOnline
January 20, 2025 Monday 3:08 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:15
Length: 3850 words
Byline: Katelyn Caralle, Senior U.S. Political Reporter In Washington, D.C.
Body


Follow DailyMail.com's live coverage of the first day of Trump's second term
                     Donald Trump is signing approximately 200 executive orders on Monday in a massive crackdown on Day One of his second term.
The orders cover a wide range of issues from immigration policies, to gender identity issues and even deregulating the permitted flow of water from shower heads.
'Today, I will sign a series of historic executive orders,' Trump said during his inaugural address from the Capitol Rotunda on Monday. 'With these actions, we will begin the complete restoration of America and the revolution of common sense - it's all about common sense.' 
One of his more interesting proposals is to rename or restore previous titles to landmarks and bodies of water bordering the U.S., including the new 'Gulf of America.'
And 10 of his orders crack down on illegal immigration and the southern border crisis.
Trump is also targeting more 'woke' social policies enacted by his predecessor, including getting rid of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices and declaring that there are only two genders.
Trump's second term will undoubtedly be filled with future-altering actions.
DailyMail.com breaks down some of Trump's biggest Day One executive actions and how they will affect Americans and the world.
                     The very first executive order                   
President Trump's first action as president was to sign a document that rescinded 78 of Biden's executive orders.
The 'Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions' made sure that order Trump did not agree with are no longer in effect.
'The previous administration has embedded deeply unpopular inflationary, illegal and radical practices within every agency and office of the federal government,' Trump's own action reads.
This included going back on Biden-era orders that bolstered diversity equity and inclusion practices in schools and the workplace as well as border and climate related actions.
It also reversed some orders Biden signed that rescinded Trump's orders from his first term.
'To commence the policies that will make our Nation united, fair, safe and prosperous again, it is the policy of the United States to restore common sense to the federal government.'
                     Regulatory freeze                   
In an effort to place even more power in Trump's hands, the president issued an order on Monday that requires his approval for any new regulations or rules.
The border stops the federal government from proposing or issuing 'any rule in any matter' without Trump first reviewing and approving it.
It also asks agencies to consider postponing for 60 days any rules that have been issued but have not taken effect, 'for the purpose of reviewing any questions of fact, law and policy that the rules may raise.'
                     Renaming the Gulf of Mexico                   
Trump shocked earlier this month when during a press conference at Mar-a-Lago he suggested renaming the Gulf of Mexico.
'We'll be changing the name of the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America, which has a beautiful ring,' Trump told reporters in Florida.
'That covers a lot of territory. The Gulf of America. What a beautiful name. It is appropriate,' he insisted.
This was met with the ire of Mexican politicians, including their president.
                     Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum hit back at Trump's plan by last week unveiling a map dating back to the 1600s that showed an early designation of North America with the title 'America Mexicana' in giant letters.
'Mexican America, that sounds nice, no?' she said sarcastically, pointing to a massive image of the old map behind her. 'He talked about name, we too are talking about the name.'
                     Saving TikTok in America                   
Trump vowed that he would keep TikTok working in the U.S. - even after the Supreme Court ruled last week that it could not operate in the country.
The order issued on Monday instructs the Attorney General not to take any action to enforce the ban for 75 days so he can work out a deal on keeping it around permanently.
Trump has said that TikTok helped him win the young vote in his 2024 campaign and promised in turn that he would work to make sure that the Chinese social media would be permitted to continue operating in the U.S.
Many lawmakers oppose TikTok because of its links to the Chinese Communist Party and claims Beijing is using the app to spy on Americans and compromising national security.
Congress wants TikTok to be forced to sell at least a majority of it's business to a U.S. - or non Chinese - entity.
'I have the unique constitutional responsibility for the national security of the United States, the conduct of foreign policy and other vital executive functions,' the order states.
'To fulfill those responsibilities, I intend to consult with my advisors, including the heads of relevant departments and agencies on the national security concerns posed by TikTok and to pursue a resolution that protects national security while saving a platform used by 170 million Americans.
'My administration must also review sensitive intelligence related to those concerns and evaluate the sufficiency of migration measures TikTok has taken to date.'
                                            January 6 pardons                                        
Donald Trump pardoned more than 1,500 people convicted of crimes related to the January 6, 2021 Capitol riot.
Hundreds were released from jails and prisons on Monday with the stroke of Trump's pen.
'This proclamation ends a grave national injustice that has been perpetrated upon the American people over the last four years and begins a process of national reconciliation,' he wrote in the order.
It was one of the first actions that Trump signed when he got to the White House on Monday - after his swearing-in and inaugural ceremonies and indoor parade, where he also signed a few executive orders.
As of August, more than 1,488 defendants were arrested and charged with crimes related to the Capitol riot that sought to prevent certification of the 2020 presidential election results.
Trump vowed to pardon January 6 prisoners and defendants after Biden pardoned his own son Hunter, 54, days after Thanksgiving and just about two months before leaving office.
Hunter was charged with felonies related to tax fraud and lying on a federal form to purchase a firearm.
Biden also issued a slew of preemptive pardons for friends and other members of his family and some of Trump's biggest foes just moments before vacating office on Monday.
                     Protecting freedom of speech and ending government censorship                   
Trump slammed Biden for 'censoring Americans' speech on online platforms' by 'exerting substantial coercive pressure on third-parties, such as social media companies to moderate, deplatform or otherwise suppress speech that the federal government did not approve.'
Trump's new order on this issue ensures no federal government agency or employee works to 'abridge the free speech of any American citizen.'
It also ensures that 'no taxpayer resources are used to engage in or facilitate any conduct that would unconstitutionally abridge the free speech of any American citizen.'
                     Stopping weaponization of the government against citizens                   
Similarly, Trump accused the Biden administration of engaging 'in a systematic campaign against its perceived political opponents, weaponizing the legal force of numerous federal law enforcement agencies and the Intelligence Community against those perceived political opponents in the form of investigations, prosecutions, civil enforcement actions and other related actions.'
His executive order directs the Attorney General - presumably Pam Bondi, if confirmed - to review the actions of any agency and department that exercised 'civil or criminal law enforcement authority over the last five years.'
It also directs the Director of National Intelligence to do the same thing for all departments and agencies within the Intelligence Community.
                     Recognition of 'only two sexes'                   
Trump is declaring that the federal government will only recognize two sexes - male and female.
It comes amid a social push for there to be expanded genders included on official documentations and after Biden enacted protections for transgender people.
Biden's State Department has allowed since 2022 for people to select a third gender, labeled X, on their passports. They did not require Americans to provide medical documentation to be able to choose this option. 
Now, the State Department, Department of Homeland Security and other agencies are tasked with enforcing the directive that will apply only male or female to passports, visas and other government documents.
A White House official says the order is about 'restoring sanity.'
                     Ending federal workforce tele-working                   
Trump signed on Monday his Return to In-Person Work mandate that puts an end to permitting remote work for federal government employees.
The order directs heads of departments and agencies to implement terminating remote work arrangements 'as soon as practicable' and 'require employees to return to work in-person at their respective duty stations on a full-time basis.'
The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) told Congress last year about '10 percent, or 228,000 employees, work entirely remotely.'
It's not clear how soon the government offices will fill back up with the thousands who worked from home over the last several years - but Trump made it clear that is should be as soon as they are able to enforceably return.
The order does allow for department and agency heads to 'make exemptions they deem necessary.'
Trump's buddy Elon Musk has been a major proponent for in-person work, claiming that much of government's waste includes buildings that are on lease but sitting empty or nearly empty as the workforce stays home either on a part-time or full-time basis.
                     Federal government hiring freeze                   
Another Trump order on Monday requires that 'no federal civilian position that is vacant at noon on January 20, 2025 may be filled and no new position may be created.'
While this does not apply to military personnel or positions related to immigration enforcement, national security or public safety, all other agencies and departments are prevented from hiring more employees - even from active listings.
The order also requires that within 90 days of issuance the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) must submit a plan to reduce the size of the federal government.
                     Halting foreign aid to target DEI                   
Trump is also putting a stop to all issuance of new foreign aid.
Two senior White House officials confirmed to DailyMail.com the order targets all foreign aid that doesn't fit within the U.S. strategic goals.
The aim is to crackdown on spending outside U.S. interests and prevent American taxpayer funds from working against them or promoting 'diversity, equity and inclusion' agendas.
The order is likely to immediately halt the distribution of U.S. money from going to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), which distributes aid in Gaza and is accused of close ties to the terror group Hamas .
The UN admitted that nine of UNRWA staff may have been involved in the October 7, 2023 attack on Israel.
'The United States and American citizens have been some of the most generous people in the entire world,' an incoming White House policy adviser told DailyMail.com.
'But at this point, we have to understand that foreign policy is domestic policy, and if this is not aligned with our interests, then Uncle Sam should not be opening up his pocketbook any longer.'
                     Birthright citizenship                   
Trump is ending birthright citizenship for illegal immigrants.
This means anyone born on U.S. soil, but whose parents are undocumented aliens will no longer be a de facto citizen of the United States of America. 
Advocates for asylum seekers and undocumented immigrants claim this is against the 14th Amendment of the Constitution, which created the unique birthright citizenship rule for anyone born in the U.S. 
                     Military mobilization at the southern border                   
Trump is also directing the Department of Defense to send troops to assist with securing America's borders.
Trump has vowed the largest deportation effort in U.S. history and has claimed he will use the military if needed to wrangle illegal immigrants and kick them out of the country.
A White House official told reporters on a call Monday that the military will not be immediately used within the country, but only at its borders.
Rather the Department of Homeland Security will create task forces to work with local and state law enforcement to identify, detain and deport these illegal aliens.
                     Other immigration orders                   
Ten of Trump's executive orders on Day One relate to the southern border and illegal immigration crisis.
The number of immediate actions underscore the importance of immigration policy to Trump's second term.
He is declaring a national emergency at the southern border.
'All illegal entry will immediately be halted and we will being the process of returning millions and millions of criminal aliens back to the places from which they came,' Trump noted in his Monday address.
Trump is also ending catch-and-release, a policy that allowed illegal border crossers seeking asylum to be detained and then released within the country as they awaited a court date.
He is reinstating the Remain in Mexico policy that makes illegal border hoppers wait in the last country where they crossed from, which is most often Mexico, as they wait for a court date to make their asylum claims.
And Trump is requiring that his promised and famed southern border wall is finally completed.
Trump is designating cartels as terrorist organizations, which will change the way that they are handled when it comes to foreign affairs and defense regarding attacks by these cartel members.
This is in response to the dramatic uptick in drug and human trafficking at the southern border during Biden's term. 
                     Establishment of External Revenue Service                   
Trump is creating a complimentary agency to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to deal with external taxes and tariffs.
Like the IRS, the External Revenue Service (ERS) will collect and uphold laws related to taxes on foreign countries.
It comes after Trump said in November that he will impose a 25 percent tariff on Canada and Mexico. He also wants to put an additional 10 percent tax on goods from China - on top of other existing tariffs.
'I will immediately begin the overhaul of our trade system to protect American workers and families,' Trump said during his speech at the Capitol on Monday. 'Instead of taxing our citizens to enrich other countries, we will tariff and tax foreign countries to enrich our citizens.'
Trump went on: 'For this purpose, we are establishing the External Revenue Service to collect all tariffs, duties and revenues.'
'It will be massive amounts of money pouring into our Treasury - coming from foreign sources,' he concluded. 'The American dream will soon be back and thriving like never before.'
                     Emergency price relief and addressing the cost-of-living crisis                   
The economic crisis and surging inflation was one of the biggest issues in the 2024 presidential elections.
Polling of Americans consistently showed they felt more financially stable during Trump's first term than under President Biden's administration.
This executive order directs agencies to pursue any actions to lower the cost of housing and expand housing supply.
It also requires the elimination of unnecessary administrative expenses and rent-seeking practices that increase healthcare costs as well as elimination of counterproductive requirements that raise the cost of home appliances.
Trump's emergency price relief executive order will also create more employment opportunities and eliminate 'harmful coercive 'climate' policies that increase the cost of food and fuel.
                     Shower head water flow                   
Trump's gush of executive orders includes cracking down on conservation regulations.
The 'Unleashing American Energy' order seeks to roll back regulations that conservatives slam for limiting water usage in dishwashers and showers.
Trump has complained about water pressure issues for years - including at a January press conference at Mar-a-Lago.
'When you buy a faucet, no water comes out. Even in areas with so much water you don't know what to do. It's called rain. It comes down from heaven. And they want to do - no water comes out of the shower. It goes drip, drip, drip ... So what happens? You're in the shower ten times as long.'
The order will end efforts to 'curtail consumer choice' relating to dishwashers, gas stoves, and shower heads, the White House previewed before the order.
Federal regulations set a maximum flow rate of 2.5 gallons per minute for shower heads.
                     Electric Vehicle regulation                   
Trump previously floated ending Biden's electric vehicle mandate, which could potentially hurt 'First Buddy' Elon Musk and his EV company Tesla.
But this is one of the initiatives congressional Republicans would rather pass in the Trump bills later this year.
On Monday, however, he confirmed going forward with the order.
'We will revoke the electric vehicle mandate, saving our auto industry and keeping my sacred pledge to our great American auto workers,' Trump said in his address.
'In other words, you'll be able to buy the car of your choice,' he added. 'We will build automobiles in America again at a rate that nobody could have dreamt possible just a few years ago.'
'And thank you to the auto workers of our nation for your inspiring vote of confidence. We did tremendously with their vote.'
                     National Energy Emergency declaration                   
Trump is declaring on day one another national emergency, this time focusing on the 'energy emergency.'
'We will drill baby drill,' he said of initiatives to use more domestic energy resources.
                     Withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accords                   
Trump directed the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations - presumably former Rep. Elise Stefanik - to immediately submit a formal written notification of the United States' withdrawal from the Paris Agreement.
The order is meant to prioritize Americans' interests in international environmental agreements, claiming that other countries are not paying their fair share.
'In recent years, the United States has purported to join international agreements and initiatives that do not reflect our country's values as our contributions to the pursuit of economic and environmental objectives,' the order reads.
'Moreover, this agreement steers American taxpayer dollars to countries that do not require, or merit, financial assistance in the interests of the American people.'
As part of his reversals on Biden-era policy, he will also undo some of the restrictions on drilling fossil fuels in the Arctic.
Trump signed orders aimed at promoting oil and gas development in Alaska, and pledged to increase fracking while scaling back policies increasing green energy production.
                     Accountability for federal policy positions                   
This order claims federal supervisors are afraid to fire incompetent staff members and requires that more accountability be brought to those who work for the government.
'Accountability is essential for all federal employees, but it is essentially important for those who are in policy-making positions,' the executive order reads.
'These personnel are entrusted to shape and implement actions that have a significant impact on all Americans.'
                     Holding former officials accountable for election interference                   
Trump moved forward on Monday with his vow to revoke the security clearance of the 51 pro-Biden officials.
These individuals all signed a now-infamous memo claiming that damning pictures and messages found on Hunter Biden's laptop bore 'all the classic earmarks' of a Russian disinformation campaign.
It was later revealed and confirmed by the FBI that the First Son's laptop and its contents are legitimate.
It later led to Hunter's federal gun trial.
Among the coordinators of the infamous memo were Secretary of State Antony Blinken , former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta.
The memo was used by Biden to discredit the laptop and the damning evidence against his adult son during presidential debates, town halls and other media appearances prior to the 2024 election.
                     Revert name of tallest U.S. mountain                   
Trump is ordering that Alaska's Denali mountain go by its original moniker Mount McKinley.
Then-President Barack Obama changed the official name in 2015 to one that was more in-line with the preference of Alaska Natives and residents as the previous name was thought to be disrespectful of the aboriginal community living there.
Denali means 'the high one' or 'the great one' - an apt name for the tallest mountain on U.S. soil.
In 1896 a prospector named the mountain Mount McKinley, after President William McKinley - even though he had never been to Alaska or summited the peak - and it was recognized as such until Obama's 2015 change.
Trump suggested a year later that he would undo Obama's action but stopped suggesting it over opposition from Alaska lawmakers.
But last month at a rally in Phoenix, Trump reraised the topic.
'McKinley was a very good, maybe a great president,' Trump said Sunday. 'They took his name off Mount McKinley, right? That's what they do to people.'
McKinley was a Republican from Ohio who served as the 25th president and was assassinated early in his second term in 1901 in Buffalo, New York.
Alaska and Ohio have been at odds over the name since at least the 1970s.
Trump said during his inaugural address on Monday that he will be changing the name back.
                     Withdrawing from the World Health Organization                   
Trump is taking the U.S. out of the World Health Organization and pausing any transfer of federal funds for the organization.
The order also reassigns any personnel or contractors currently working in any capacity with the WHO.
It blames the reason for withdrawal on the group's 'mishandling' of the COVID pandemic, 'its failure to adopt urgently needed reforms and its inability to demonstrate independence from the inappropriate influence of WHO member states.'
'In addition, the WHO continues to demand unfairly onerous payments from the United States, far out of proportion with other countries' assessed payments,' Trump's order insists.

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
