




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 1, 2025 Saturday 10:45 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 662 words
Byline: Russell Contreras
Body


February 1st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Science fiction writer   
That day is today.
The big picture: This  
Through her fiction, Butler foresaw U.S. society's direction and the potential for civil societies to collapse thanks to the weight of economic disparities and climate change - with blueprints for hope.

State of play: This year, the month-long celebration of Black American accomplishments and perseverance will be commemorated amid uncertainty after the Trump administration ordered government agencies to  
The move is confusing some agencies on whether Black history can even be acknowledged this year while the nation deals with rising    
Meanwhile, states like  
Zoom in: In "Parable of the Sower," the novel's 15-year-old protagonist, Lauren Olamina, writes a simple journal entry: Saturday, February 1, 2025: "We had a fire today. People worry so much about fire."
What unfolds in the pages that follow is a dystopian world surrounding the gated, racially mixed, fictional community of Robledo, California.
A new drug forces addicts to set fires to communities, who then rob and rape victims. Unhoused people roam the streets and are forced to steal to survive. Hurricanes, fires and violence push Americans to flee north to Canada.
President Donner, like President Trump, promises to restore the country to its former glory.
Racially mixed couples, like Olamina's Black/Chicano family, are vulnerable to attacks, and her parents, both PhD holders, have limited job opportunities.
Yes, but: Black, white, Latino and Asian Americans fall in love despite the racism outside the walls.
They arm themselves and protect each other.
They share history and books in defiance of attempted erasure.
What they're saying: "She was trying to warn us of a possible future that she saw coming if we did not change," Jesse Holland, editor of the anthology,  
"With her predictions, we can see the awful visage of the future that is getting closer and closer every day."
Holland said that includes the wildfires in California, the Trump administration moving away from Black History Month and the U.S. "seemingly not caring" about some of its citizens.
"The hope in this is that we as a people in the United States have survived worse," Holland said. "We are a people of perseverance."
Zoom out: Butler often reminded readers she wasn't a prophet but part of a science fiction artist community asking "what ifs,"   
"She was looking at the racial dynamics and the class dynamics deepening and worsening over time. And she asked, 'If we don't solve any of these problems, what will society look like?"
The intrigue: Many scholars and readers believe the fictional community of Robledo is based on the actual community of racially mixed  
In the novel, Robledo is destroyed by a fire and then raided by scavengers and looters. So was Altadena.
Butler is buried in Altadena. Her cemetery caught fire, but her resting place was spared.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
