




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 11:20 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 519 words
Byline: Colin Demarest
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
For a man who's courted so much controversy, whose first name became a conservative chorus on X and whose nomination prompted questions of "Who?!" at happy hours,  
The big picture: President Trump is disruptor in chief. His picks for key posts are unorthodox; his flurry of fiats, some  
But Hegseth - a combat veteran, former Fox News personality and now  
Here's what written testimony, submitted to Congress ahead of the historic 51-50 vote, reveals about his geopolitics and weapons thinking.
China: The potential seizure of Taiwan, a "fait accompli," should motivate U.S. military modernization. Guam is a linchpin for  
Russia: Despite sanctions and other constraints, its war machine still packs a punch. Moscow's digital subterfuge and Arctic ambitions "are particularly acute." The invasion of Ukraine is "settling into a war of attrition."
Iran: The regime, which props up violent proxies, creeps closer to nuclear weapons. Its  
North Korea: An "intense focus" on missile development, hacking gains and nuclear arms is concerning. Its "space capabilities" must be monitored. Missile defense needs beefing up closer to home.
Nukes: A triad is a necessity. Full stop. And full steam ahead on the Sentinel nuclear missile,  
Doing business: The Pentagon is thinking too narrowly; it should look beyond Cold War suppliers. Places like the Office of Strategic Capital and Defense Innovation Unit are oases. Delayed, over-budget projects require a "thorough review."
Army upgrades: Wars abroad underline the value of cyber, autonomy and precision fires.
Next Generation Air Dominance: A  
Shipbuilding: The U.S. must up its game. Navy leadership should develop a "shipbuilding road map to increase our capacity" and remove supply chain chokepoints.
Yes, but: His takes on women's role in combat, ousting "woke" generals and takedown of diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives have been cast inside and outside Congress as far more radical.
One of Hegseth's  
What's next: Hegseth promised to delegate day-to-day matters to his yet-to-be-confirmed deputy. Trump picked billionaire investor Stephen Feinberg for that post.
Meantime, the potential Army, Navy and Air Force secretaries (Dan Driscoll, John Phelan and Troy Meink) await their hearings and votes.
Go deeper:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
