




thetimes.co.uk
February 14, 2025 Friday 9:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 937 words
Byline: Sarah Ditum
Highlight: A few years ago ‘woke capitalism’ seemed an unstoppable force but the big brands’ preaching only ever went skin deep
Body


When is Black History Month? How about Pride Month? Don’t bother checking Google Calendar to find out because these — and many other observances besides — are no longer marked there. On Google’s support forums, the reaction from users was calm and measured. I’m joking, of course: one poster called it “shameful” and accused Google of using Calendar to “capitulate to fascism”. 
Google says the change was actually rolled out in the middle of last year and has nothing to do with the new American president’s war on DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion). Maintaining the hundreds of dates that had been accrued in the system, and adding the hundreds more it would take to ensure no one felt left out, had simply become too much of a time sink. 
On the other hand, it’s a decision that aligns awfully neatly with the company’s overall cultural repositioning: after Trump’s anti-DEI executive order, Google announced in an internal memo that it would “no longer have aspirational goals” for representation in hiring. And this in turn is part of a broader retreat by corporations from the “values” that only a couple of years ago were (to borrow the appropriate corporatese) “integral to their missions”. 
Over at Facebook, it’s a similar picture. In 2019, the company set an aspirational goal of its own: by 2024, half its workforce would be “comprised of women … and underrepresented minorities”. “Progress in representation is critical to serve a global audience,” wrote Facebook’s chief diversity officer, Maxine Williams. But the target was missed, and then this year abandoned completely. 
At the same time, Facebook stopped fact-checking and loosened its moderation so you may now, if you wish, go on there and accuse gay and trans people of being mentally ill. Not so very long ago, Facebook’s own employees accused it of being a “political monoculture” that was intolerant of any dissent from left-wing ideology. That’s not a problem you’d say it has now.
Facebook’s founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has also undergone a personal rebranding — from wan soyboy to beefed up techbro. At the start of this year, he went on Joe Rogan’s podcast and decried the “culturally neutered” nature of the corporate world. What did businesses need instead? “Masculine energy.”
And how has Zuckerberg been demonstrating his masculine energy? By reportedly briefing behind the scenes that the DEI stuff was never his idea anyway but had instead come from Facebook’s former chief operating officer 

 (author of the corporate feminist classic, 
                   Lean In                   
). Squealing “a big girl made me do it and ran away” doesn’t exactly reek of “masculine energy” to me, but apparently it’s working for Zuck. 
Everywhere you look, the forces of “woke capitalism” are suddenly in collapse, after years of being apparently unshakeable. From Trump’s first election in 2016 to a peak during the “reckoning” of 2020, you could barely log in to social media without encountering a major brand delivering some kind of political sermon. 
Who could forget, for example, the time McDonald’s endorsed Black Lives Matter and declared its commitment to all “victims of systemic oppression and violence” — in a video tastefully made in the company’s ketchup-and-mustard brand colours? Or the time that the smoothie makers Innocent Drinks decided to give social media followers detailed instructions on how to talk to trans people?
Actually, I’d managed to wipe both of these from my mind. Now it seems incredible that corporations ever thought it was their business to make these kinds of pronouncements. But it’s worth remembering that it really was: in the era of “silence equals violence”, a brand could find itself in reputational hot water simply for saying nothing. 
Until the tide started to shift, and consumers began to express their displeasure with being hectored. Bud Light used to be the bestselling beer in the US. Then it decided it wasn’t content with selling tasteless lager to middle American men. It wanted to reach a new kind of consumer — one with (for want of a better phrase) less masculine energy.
The brand launched a collaboration with the trans influencer Dylan Mulvaney, in which Mulvaney seemed to mock 

. Sales dropped 28 per cent. You could put this down to bigotry and in some cases you’d be right to. But more important was the fact that Mulvaney made Bud Light drinkers feel they were being chided by the very product they spent their money on. 
That incident will probably be remembered as the one that finished woke capitalism off, and what’s most surprising now is how easily it died. Only last year you could read fervent commentators describing woke capitalism as, depending on how they felt about the causes involved, either “a mighty force” or something that was “killing democracy and prosperity”.
But it was neither of those things. Businesses delivered these social justice platitudes but never really believed them. Three years after McDonald’s made its grand gesture for the victims of systemic oppression, it turned out that quite a few such victims were working in its own kitchens: an investigation revealed multiple allegations of sexual assault, sexual harassment, bullying and homophobia in British branches.
Real revolutions are unlikely to sit comfortably with revenue forecasts and shareholder demands. Woke capitalism was always a cheap substitute for politics — a way to let consumers feel they were achieving something, while business carried on as usual. Its demise is overdue, and as every bit opportunistic as its rise. 

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
