




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 10:00 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 380 words
Byline: Alex Fitzpatrick
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Data: National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health; Map: Alex Fitzpatrick/Axios
Some states have far more to lose than others if the second Trump administration cuts federal health and science funding.
Why it matters: President Trump's executive orders effectively freezing some public health and science work has scientists, researchers and others   
Driving the news: National Science Foundation (NSF)   
Some review time is normal during presidential transitions, and it's possible that both agencies' work will eventually continue more or less as normal.
But it's also possible that some projects will be rejected that might have been funded during previous administrations, especially given Trump's criticisms of DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) efforts, green energy and more.
The latest: The Trump administration on Monday issued  
Yes, but: A federal judge on Tuesday temporary  
By the numbers: In fiscal year 2024, the NSF and NIH allocated the most funding per 1,000 residents to universities, research institutions, and other health and science organizations in Massachusetts (about $573,000); Washington, D.C. ($563,000) and Maryland ($465,000).
In raw dollar terms, California ($6.2 billion), New York ($4.1 billion) and Massachusetts ($4 billion) received the most combined NSF and NIH funding in fiscal 2024.
Those two agencies support a wide variety of scientific and health research, education and more.
The NIH, for example, played a major role in developing  
What's next: For the country's science and health communities, the next few days and weeks will be rife with uncertainty as the long-term implications of Trump's moves come into focus.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
