




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 3:07 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 1272 words
Byline: Eleanor Hawkins
Body


January 29th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
Several of America's largest companies have buckled to the pressures of political and  
Why it matters: Calls for ending these corporate initiatives have become more fervent in the past year and are expected to intensify in President Trump's second term.
The big picture: Companies have been talking about DEI less, and reframing the narrative when they do.
Mentions of DEI and "diversity equity and inclusion" in earnings calls  
The Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM)  
Zoom in: Brown-Forman, Lowe's, Meta and McDonald's have publicly cited the legal environment - due to the Supreme Court's 2023  
Meanwhile, anti-DEI activist and Trump ally Robby Starbuck  
What they're saying: "Of course, the Supreme Court decision was one of the sparks that made movement in terms of having companies reconsider DEI," says Ann O'Leary, partner and co-chair of government controversies and public policy litigation practice at Jenner & Block.
Yes, but: "If you take it from a purely legal perspective, I think that the legal risk mitigation is low in terms of continuing to be able to do DEI practices," she added.
"What we're seeing is companies looking at the holistic picture- like social media campaigns that have been run against companies and the political environment in which you have not only Trump, but his closest advisors, such as Elon Musk, going after particular companies around DEI. But we're also seeing companies really taking a close look at why they're doing what they're doing."
Companies that have abandoned or rolled back their commitments or programs related to diversity, equity and inclusion include:
Amazon
In a  
Boeing
Boeing  
Brown-Forman
The Jack Daniels maker sent an internal note  
Caterpillar
Caterpillar will  
Ford
The automaker will  
Harley-Davidson
The company  
John Deere
In response to "feedback," Deere   
Lowe's
Lowe's  
Molson Coors
The beverage wholesaler  
McDonald's
In a letter to   
Meta
Citing "the legal and policy landscape,"  
Nissan
The automaker  
Stanley Black & Decker
The company  
Target
Target  
Tractor Supply
Tractor Supply   
Toyota
Toyota  
Walmart
Walmart will   
Companies that have publicly defended their diversity, equity and inclusion policies include:
American Airlines, Southwest Airlines and United Airlines
American First Legal filed   
Apple
The tech giant says it remains committed to diversity, equity and inclusion and has  
Cisco
Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins  
Costco
Costco  
Delta
In a recent earnings call, Delta's Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Peter Carter  
Salesforce
Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff said he'll continue to support a diverse workforce during an Axios interview in Davos,  
More on Axios:  
Editor's Note: This is a developing story and will be updated.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
