




The Daily Caller
January 20, 2025 Monday 10:56 PM EST


Copyright 2025 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: NATIONAL-SECURITY
Length: 660 words
Byline: Eireann Van Natta, Intelligence State Reporter, 
Body



A Biden appointee who advocated for diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in the intelligence community will reportedly serve as Acting Director of National Intelligence while the White House awaits Tulsi Gabbard's confirmation for the job.
Stacey Dixon, former Principal Deputy Director of DNI, was tapped by the Trump transition team to serve as acting DNI, Politico . Dixon was appointed to principal deputy DNI by Joe Biden, but she also served in the intelligence community during the Trump administration.
Tulsi Gabbard's confirmation hearing for DNI has yet to be scheduled by the Senate. Democrats on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence had not yet met with Gabbard as recently as two weeks ago, weeks after Gabbard had been announced as Trump's pick.
A s that the top Democrat on the committee, Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, had taken more than a month to reply to an email from Gabbard's team and that he was preventing the other Democrats on the committee from meeting with the nominee. Warner claimed Gabbard was not up to date on her paperwork, while Gabbard's team accused the Democrats of “playing politics.”
While sources familiar with the transition told the outlet that Dixon was seen as “less partisan” than deputy DNI for mission integration , Dixon has made DEI a focal point in the past. 
 On Wednesday, 's Deputy Director Stacey Dixon visited DIA to discuss the value of diversity & inclusion.
 “Diversity is great, but if people don't feel like they can bring their ideas to the table it doesn't matter. Inclusion is just as important.”  
 - DIA (@DefenseIntel) 
Dixon previously  as Deputy Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) from 2019-2021 and was Director of the  (IARPA), the research arm of the intelligence community.
Dixon stated at a HORIZONS Scholarship Celebration event in 2019 that one reason she accepted the position of NGA deputy director was because she intended to “[work] on diversity and inclusion,” according to .
She noted that 32 percent of the agency's workforce are women. 
Dixon said “we also need a strong focus on diversity and inclusion,” adding that it is “critical for national security,” the outlet reported. The agency sped up efforts to recruit women and minorities, C4ISRNET said.
In 2020, Dixon was an inductee into the Executive Mosaic Wash100 Award for her diversity advocacy within the NGA, GovCon Wire . The organization lauded her “commitment to the advancement of NGA's educational programs, diversity initiatives, and future space exploration,” the outlet said.
The Daily Caller reached out to the Trump Transition team but has not heard back at the time of publication.
The intelligence community has been heavily criticized for prioritizing diversity initiatives, especially in the wake of the terrorist attack on New Years. 
 6 months ago the New Orleans FBI office was doing DEI hiring events. Maybe they should have been more focused on hiring the best people who are good at catching terrorists instead?
 Hiring solely to “increase diversity” is a threat to national security for everyone. DEI must end. 
 - Robby Starbuck (@robbystarbuck) 
The New Orleans FBI office has strongly  for DEI, and former agents pointed to the Biden administration's  as a potential factor in the suspected ISIS terrorist flying under the FBI's radar.
The FBI confirmed to the Caller that it shut down its DEI office in .

Graphic

 
Dr. Stacey A. Dixon, nominee for Principal Deputy Director for National Intelligence speaks at a hearing with the Senate Select Intelligence Committee on Capitol Hill on July 20, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 27, 2025


End of Document
