




MailOnline
February 6, 2025 Thursday 5:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 955 words
Byline: Kelly Garino For Dailymail.Com
Body


Democrat Elizabeth Warren branded Elon Musk 'co-president' while complaining that the billionaire is 'taking a wrecking ball' to the government in his new role.
Speaking to MSNBC's Joy Reid on Wednesday, the Massachusetts senator warned that the pillars of government are under attack due to President Donald Trump's raft of executive orders.
Warren didn't pull any punches, taking aim at Trump and the DOGE leader during her rant.
'We've got Donald Trump and his co-president Elon Musk, and they're just running a wrecking ball through it,' she said, referring to their dismantling of federal agencies. 
On his first official day in office, the 78-year-old president wasted no time in signing a host of executive orders, signing dozens more in the weeks to follow.
Some of the actions taken included granting pardons to January 6 offenders, withdrawing the nation from the World Health Organization, terminating all DEI programs within the federal government and renaming the Gulf of Mexico.
The president signed two executive orders late last month eliminating DEI from the armed forces and prohibiting transgender people from serving.
Last week he issued another executive order demanding to end racial 'indoctrination' in K-12 schools that he accused of spreading 'anti-American' ideology. 
                     His administration is also preparing an executive order to begin dismantling the Education Department, despite having the knowledge that the president lacks the authority to kill the agency entirely. 
During the MSNBC segment, Warren defended the 'underpinnings' of the government as 'something we all invested in.' 
'We built a government to work for all of us,' she said. 
'We're just all better off if in fact the bird flu gets under control and that our eggs won't kill us. We are all better off.'
The senator suggested things like payment systems and infrastructure keep the economy running.
The senator then shifted gears to a more emotional appeal, suggesting that the effects of the actions by Trump's White House could leave children vulnerable in the classroom.
'It is really and truly the kid who needs an aide to be able to sit in class, so that they can get an education - taking that aide away, and maybe taking away that whole classroom,' she said. 
'It's these very real ways that people are touched by this. 
Warren's complaints came after she joined Democrats at the Department of the Treasury to protest Musk and his Department of Government Efficiency staff gaining access to the department's financial transactions.
'No one elected Elon Musk to nothing,' she cried at the rally. 
'That's right. Not one Democrat in America voted for Elon Musk. Not one Republican in America voted for Elon Musk. Not one Independent in America voted for Elon Musk. Not one Libertarian in America voted for Elon Musk,' she continued.
'Damn, not one vegetarian in America voted for Elon Musk. And yet Elon Musk is seizing the power that belongs to the American people, we are here to fight back.'
Since Trump was sworn back into the White House, Musk and his DOGE department have consolidated influence over large swathes of the US government.
His department has been accused of creating an alternative power structure inside the government, giving Musk the power to slash spending and fire employees without the approval of Congress.
Musk claimed his action could trim an eye-watering $1trillion from the federal deficit by tackling waste and fraud. 
On Wednesday, MSNBC's Reid also took a swipe at Trump and Musk when she accused the pair of 'selling out' CIA employees after the White House requested an email with the names of those employed at the agency, Mediaite reported.
According to The New York Times, the White House ordered the CIA to send an unclassified email with the first name and last initial of employees hired in recent years.
The order, which has raised alarm, is part of Trump's larger plan to cut government spending - especially through recommendations by DOGE.
Reid invited John Brennan, a former CIA director, to the show on Wednesday, where she told him that her head 'nearly exploded' while reading the Times report.
In response, Brennan claimed that the move was a part of the president's effort to rid the government of anyone hired during President Joe Biden's administration. 
Despite some colleagues accusing Trump and Musk of a corrupt bargain and thwarting Congress, some Democratic senators have continued to vote for Trump nominees.
However, support for Musk's influence over the president has plummeted among Republicans just weeks after Trump returned to the Oval Office.
A shocking poll came after DOGE was criticized for being given access to classified information regarding USAID and Medicare despite not having proper security clearance.
Additionally, the department announced sweeping cuts to numerous government departments, including USAID and GSA, which manages federal buildings. 
Since Trump's victory, the number of Republicans who want Musk to have 'a lot' of influence over Trump has dropped significantly from 47 percent to just 26 percent.
Meanwhile, the number of supporters who want the tech billionaire to have 'a little' influence over the President has risen by 12 percent - from 29 percent to 43 percent - according to a poll from The Economist and YouGov.
Unsurprisingly, only 6 percent of Democrats and Independents want Musk to have 'a lot' of influence. This is compared to 15 percent of Democrats and 26 per-cent of independents just three months ago.
Overall, those who want Musk to have no influence at all has risen from 30 percent in November to 46 percent. 
A separate survey from CNN uncovered that a majority of Americans do not support Musk's role in the Trump administration. 

Load-Date: February 6, 2025


End of Document
