




The Guardian (London)
February 10, 2025 Monday 5:39 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: SPORT; Version:5
Length: 1290 words
Byline: Andrew Lawrence in New Orleans
Highlight: Observers have jokingly pointed to Cooper DeJean as a diversity hire for the NFL champions. But they have succeeded by challenging outdated ways of thinking
Body


By now, those who watched Sunday’s   have most likely forgotten about the house ads promoting racial and cultural unity. That’s no doubt because a much stronger statement was delivered midway through the second quarter when a pass by the   ’ Patrick Mahomes was intercepted and returned for an touchdown by Philadelphia’s Cooper DeJean.
DeJean, the first white player to start at cornerback in a Super Bowl in 24 years, has cheekily been described by media figures such as Bomani Jones as the league’s ultimate DEI hire. But while those comments have been made with tongues firmly planted in cheeks, there is some merit in describing   as a win for diversity, equity and inclusion – something that suddenly finds itself under attack in America.
After all, Super Bowl LIX was never going to be just a game, not with the cultural storm brewing around the contest – not least Kendrick Lamar’s .  But no force carried more momentum than the Chiefs coming into Sunday. They weren’t just playing for a third successive championship. They were carrying the mantle of America’s team in the second era of Donald Trump, who became the first sitting US president to attend a Super Bowl. At the same time,   its longstanding antiracism slogans from the field, perhaps fearing Trump – who left the game early – would make it into yet another DEI issue to grandstand about.
There was no question which team the president came to see in New Orleans. Mahomes’s .  In the week before the game, the Chiefs’ star tight end Travis Kelce   in front of the president despite Trump once writing in all caps that he hated the player’s girlfriend, Taylor Swift, after she threw her support behind Kamala Harris in the presidential election. (During the game he shared video of Swift . ) Trump picked Kansas City to three-peat, called Mahomes “a winner” and referred to his wife,  , as a “Maga fan.” Trump praised Chiefs fans for voting for him “in record numbers,” even though polling data shows Harris   in Kansas City’s more populous Missouri counties. And yet: from their wantonly offensive   to the kicker who is   to the fact that the team plays in red, the Chiefs couldn’t appear in more lockstep with a Maga movement that’s hellbent on erasing 60 years of DEI gains. So it’s fitting that the most forceful rejection of this new political normal would come from Philadelphia, a city that hasn’t voted for a Republican president . 
Philly sports fans don’t bow down to authority. They buck it.   and throw batteries at players they don’t like, whether on the opposite side or on theirs. They’re righteous in their loyalty and committed to their freedom of expression. They flooded downtown streets after the Eagles booked their Super Bowl ticket and climbed light poles that the city greased in advance to deter them. Dressed in their greenest finery on Sunday, Eagles fans descended on downtown New Orleans in the tens of thousands to boo the president, boo Mahomes and bear witness to a football insurrection. That the Eagles happen to be among the most diverse, equitable and inclusive teams in sports just made their upset all the sweeter.
DEI is integral to the Eagles, an equal opportunity destroyer of dynasties. They enjoy doing things differently: seven years ago they stopped the New England Patriots from winning a second successive championship partly thanks to a trick play with a backup quarterback who caught the decisive pass. The team’s owner, Jeffrey Lurie, recently produced a film about an undocumented immigrant artist,   he was “proud” to portray on screen. After lifting the Lombardi Trophy on Sunday, Lurie made a point of shouting out 200-plus members of the Eagles “support staff you’ll never hear about”. Among them is  , an Eagles performance guru who joined the team in 2023, becoming the first Black woman ever to be part of a Super Bowl-winning coaching staff.
The DEI – as many joke – cuts both ways. For the better part of two decades  , as white prospects have historically been stereotyped as too slow and clumsy to play a position that requires lightning speed and agility. But then last year the Eagles bucked convention and drafted DeJean out of Iowa, where he ranked among college football’s most outstanding defenders. By midseason DeJean emerged in the Eagles starting lineup along with safety Reed Blankenship, Philadelphia’s other white defensive back. Any time they make a big play fans cheer the Eagles’ “  ,” nodding at the meme photograph of a   of the same name. DeJean and Blankenship’s suffocating coverage in the Super Bowl was part of a bruising effort that yielded arguably Mahomes’s worst performance as a pro to date. His two garbage-time touchdowns may have raised his final numbers, . 
But in the grand scheme, Jalen Hurts is the finest example of the Eagles discarding old ways of thinking. He is a two-time college national champion and Heisman trophy finalist whom many pundits nonetheless believed was unqualified for the job of NFL quarterback. Some experts believed he might be better suited to play running back or receiver, positions Black quarterbacks have been pushed into in the past by talent evaluators who wrongheadedly mistook their athleticism for a .  Those same experts continued questioning Hurts’s credentials and ability when he replaced franchise quarterback Carson Wentz, who is white and now Mahomes’s backup on the Chiefs. Race aside, they considered Hurts to be vastly inferior to Mahomes even though he nearly beat him in the Super Bowl two years earlier. The kicker: Hurts entrusted his business affairs to a management team   – and they promptly landed him the richest contract in NFL history at the time he signed it.
For two years Hurts kept a photo of himself downcast in the aftermath of the Eagles’ defeat to the Chiefs in Super Bowl LVII as his cell phone lock screen for motivation. But the image didn’t figure to haunt him for much longer on Sunday. After DeJean’s interception, Hurts threw a touchdown pass to AJ Brown that gave the Eagles a 24-0 lead at halftime. In the third quarter, Hurts connected with DeVonta Smith on a beautiful long pass that pushed the advantage to 34-0. In the end, Hurts’s performance wasn’t as dynamic as it had been two years ago, but it was impressive enough for the Eagles to pull him from the blowout with three minutes left to play so his backup could take the remaining snaps. “I can’t control what these people think,” Hurts said after being voted the game’s MVP. “But if it takes all the hate and all the scrutiny and all the different opinions for me to be a world champion, then keep it coming.”
At a time when the guardrails   and snapping under the strain to make DEI  , the Eagles provide a heartening lesson in resistance. They didn’t give in to a script that called for them to acquiesce in advance. They didn’t complain about the game being rigged. They just rolled up their sleeves and administered a good ol’ fashion Broad Street beatdown in front of the world. And when they take over the streets again to parade their championship team through their city with Eagles fans reveling in their rebel spirit, it shouldn’t be soon forgotten that it was DEI that did this, too.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
