




Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME 8:00 PM EST
February 19, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6786 words
Byline: Jesse Watters, Lara Trump, Will Cain
Guests: Howard Lutnick, Caitlin Sinclair
Body


LAURA INGRAHAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "THE INGRAHAM ANGLE": ... sure to follow me on social media. I do have a hilarious post that we just put up, and yes, it involves Zoe, the dog will not let me work.
Speaking of DOGE, this is a dog problem.
Jesse Watters has a great lineup tonight, and he takes it off from here, so stay tuned.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME": Welcome to JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME.
Tonight --
ELON MUSK, DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY: I'm a technologist, and I try to make technologies that improve the world. One of the biggest functions of the DOGE team is just making sure that the presidential executive orders are actually carried out.
WATTERS: Trump's tech support rewires Washington.
RICK WILSON, POLITICAL CONSULTANT: Yes, please, Daddy, spank me harder.
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: So Donald Trump and the Republicans have remade the electorate. They've turned some people over from being Democrats or Independents to become Republicans.
He's copying Frank Sinatra, doing it my way.
WATTERS: What are Democrats going to do?
GEORGE CLOONEY, ACTOR: What am I supposed to do? You know, storm the (bleep) Capitol? You know --
JON STEWART, "THE DAILY SHOW" HOST: If you cry fascism at every administrative overreach, you will find yourself out of fascism bullets.
WATTERS: The left wing little boy who cried wolf.
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: When it comes to politics, he don't know his ass from a hole in the ground.
WATTERS: Plus --
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, it feels so good.
WATTERS: When something's broken, who do you call?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: My t-shirt says "tech support" because I'm here to provide the President with technology support. And now, that may seem like, well, is that a silly thing? But actually it's a very important thing, because the President will make these executive orders, which are very sensible and good for the country, but then they don't get implemented, you know?
What we're doing here is, is one of the biggest functions of the DOGE team is just making sure that the presidential executive orders are actually carried out.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Washington has been broken for decades, and Washington is fighting to stay that way, because when things don't work, you can't find the money.
The government is living in the Dark Ages. They have rotary phones, microfiche, retirement caves, and computer software from the 60s, and 80- year-old politicians who don't even know how to use a computer, and they don't care, because they just use their iPhones to call, text and see what their high school classmates are doing on Facebook.
It's time to show a little humility and ask for a little help from the younger generation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: He's got some very brilliant young people working for him that dress much worse than him, actually.
MUSK: Yes, they are.
TRUMP: They dress in just t-shirts. You wouldn't know they have 180 I.Q.
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "HANNITY": So, he is your tech support.
TRUMP: He is. But actually, he is more than that.
MUSK: I am actually virtually am tech support.
TRUMP: Yes.
MUSK: I actually am tech support though, but that's --
TRUMP: He gets it done. He's a leader.
MUSK: Yes.
TRUMP: He really -- he gets it.
I know every businessman. I know the good ones, the bad ones, the smart ones, the lucky ones. I know them all. This guy is a very -- he's a brilliant guy. He's a great guy. He's got tremendous imagination and scientific imagination.
This guy is somebody that really cares for the country. And I saw that very early on. I saw it really a long time ago when I got to know him. He's a very different kind of a character.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Elon is trying to un-boomer the government. It is like going to your grandparents' house, throwing out their VCR and their stacks of tapes, just downloading Netflix for them. Here, Grandpa, you just hit this button here and press select. And by the way, give me your phone because you don't use all those apps, and please stop sending your Social Security number to Nigerians.
D.C. insiders say: "This is not the same government it was a month ago." It's two billionaires with an army of Whiz Kids using A.I. to finally shine a spotlight on where our money has been going. The government has been balancing the checkbook longhand in a black ledger that no one is allowed to see.
We can't have the Golden Age without living in the Modern Age.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: They sign a contract in a government agency, and it has three months, and the guy leaves that signed the contract, and nobody else is there, and they pay the contract for 10 years.
MUSK: Yes.
TRUMP: So the guy is getting checks for years and years and years, and he's telling his family, obviously, maybe he was crooked, maybe he paid to get the contract, or maybe paid that they didn't terminate it.
But you know, we have contracts that go forever, and they've been going for years and they're supposed to end in three months or five months or two years or something, and they go forever.
So the guy is either crooked, you know, where he knew this was going to happen, or he's crooked because he's getting payments and he knows he shouldn't be getting.
MUSK: Yes.
TRUMP: But they're finding things like that. They're finding things far worse than that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: DOGE found a $26 million contract to help Guatemala go green. Guatemala is already green. Half the country is rain forest. There's not a lot of Chevy Suburbans down there.
You know how people get around? They walk. Nothing greener than walking.
Another contract, $73 million to decarbonize Africa. Africa hasn't even been carbonized. How do you decarbonize something that's never been carbonized? We can't even build electric car charging stations here. We're going to build them in Africa?
$83 million to help Nigeria transition to low carbon electricity. Windmills in Nigeria, awesome. Three-and-a-half million for DEI scholarships in Burma. Isn't everyone in Burma DEI? 0You know what diversity is in Burma? White. Did we give White scholarships in Burma? Maybe they were really good at squash.
DOGE has a big old magnifying glass and is finding out everything. And when you boil it down, it's just a math problem. If the numbers don't add up, it's out.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CHIEF POLITICAL ANCHOR: Are you definitively getting rid of the penny.
SCOTT BESSENT, US TREASURY SECRETARY: Bret, I've got to say that President Trump wants to make the penny extinct, and that's part of the cost savings. It costs about three cents to make one cent. Even in Washington, that math doesn't work.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: It costs three cents to make one cent, and we've been minting pennies for decades. No one else thought it was stupid until Trump. What? Was the penny lobby too powerful? Big copper got the Senate drunk and took them pheasant hunting?
DOGE found four-and-a-half million active credit cards in the hands of government bureaucrats, and last year, they racked up $40 billion in charges. They probably just paid the monthly minimums, too, and got wrecked by interest.
The government has twice as many credit cards as federal employees, so DOGE is cutting up the credit cards, and Democrats are calling that Fort Sumter.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): I'm very reluctant to, you know, engage in too much hyperbole here, but I think this is increasingly becoming the most serious moment since the Civil War.
And, you know, I just think it's a miracle that we've lasted as long as we have.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Big Balls looking at your balance sheet isn't Gettysburg. Are Democrats going to secede from the Union again? We already have rebels yelling.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(PEOPLE chanting "More funding, not less. End research funding theft. More funding, not less.")
(PEOPLE chanting "Hey, hey, RFK, hands off the FDA.")
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): Hey, hey, RFK, we remember JFK.
Fascism is a virus, too, and the people who are out here fighting in sub- freezing temperatures, they are the antibodies. We are the antibodies.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
RASKIN: And my friends, a rally a day keeps the fascists away.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: I thought Democrats didn't believe in antibodies. Had to get the shot anyway, even if you just had the 'rona.
And if having a balanced budget is fascist, that makes Bill Clinton Mussolini. Schumer said he's never seen Democrats so aroused, and I believe him.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): Elon, if you're watching, come through, boo, because you haven't shown up to the DOGE Subcommittee yet.
JOY REID, MSNBC HOST: So now Trump has two daddies -- Putin and Elon Musk.
WILSON: I can remember back in the day of Obamacare, Republicans were saying, do you want Barack Obama and George Soros to have access to your medical records? And it led to Republicans losing their minds over and over and over and over again.
And now it's like, yes, please, daddy, spank me harder.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: DOGE is dishing out spankings like Daddy Daycare. The Pentagon is being ordered to slash eight percent of their budget, it shouldn't be that hard, they lost $6 billion in Ukraine, so when the war ends, we can go find it. I'm sure it will still be there.
Six thousand IRS agents are getting DOGE'd Thursday, that will unite Republicans and Democrats. Don, Jr. just high fived Hunter and then he washed his hands.
But bureaucrats are lawyering up.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HANNA HICKMAN, TERMINATED FEDERAL WORKER: I think it's so important for American people to understand what's happening their government, their watchdog agencies, the people who go to work every day to fight for them are being fired, illegally, in what is just a wholesale dismantling of entire agencies.
ABC NEWS HOST: So what can you do now? Can you do anything now? Are you going to do anything now?
HICKMAN: Of course, my colleagues and I are fighting back. Our union is already in court. They've brought a couple of cases that I think we'll see action in in the next few weeks.
And you know, all I can say is that Elon Musk and the President picked the wrong bunch of lawyers to mess with.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: That sounded like a threat, nothing scarier than a White lady with a lawyer.
Did you know Biden went to court and argued he had the right to fire everybody he wanted to in the federal government? Trump is firing folks using precedent from Biden.
Trump doesn't just walk into a shop and pay full price, he haggles. All he is doing is bargain hunting, and the bargain is not for him, it's for you.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MUSK: In order to save taxpayer money, it comes down to two things, competence and caring. And when President was shown the outrageous bill for the new Air Force One and then negotiated it down, if the President had not applied competence and caring, the price would have been 50 percent higher, literally 50 percent higher.
The President cared, the President is competent. The price was not 50 percent higher as a result.
And so when you add more competence and caring, you get a better deal for the American people.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats claim they're compassionate. What's compassionate about debt? What's compassionate about kickbacks? We gave Congress the power of the purse, and they're getting robbed blind, and no one has ever called the cops.
It's because it's not their money, it's yours. They don't care about your money, but we do.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You people still don't get it. You don't get it. I voted for Donald Trump.
Black Trump supporter, voted for Donald Trump to do what he's doing. Did you expect Donald Trump to do this? Not all this. Oh, it feels so good. That's how I feel.
Do you like Elon Musk? Yes. Well, yes. Yes, I do.
I watched you Democrats tell me, that's why Republicans like small government. Well, that didn't work, so we need Elon. That's why we've got Elon, to help shrink it.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: What Democrats don't get is DOGE is democracy. It's what we voted for. But it gets even better. Get ready for some DOGE dividends.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
TRUMP: There's even under consideration a new concept where we give 20 percent of the DOGE savings to American citizens, and 20 percent goes to paying down debt because the numbers are incredible, Elon, so many billions of dollars, billions, hundreds of billions, and we're thinking about giving 20 percent back to the American citizens and 20 percent down to pay back debt and pay down debt.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick is here now.
First of all, congratulations on your confirmation, Secretary.
HOWARD LUTNICK, U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY NOMINEE: Thank you. And all Republicans; the Democrats, didn't show up for me at all. I guess they're afraid of good government. They're just afraid of good government.
WATTERS: So you're in there just barely what? Twenty-four hours? What are you seeing with this DOGE fraud they're discovering.
Could you imagine it was this bad?
LUTNICK: Well, when I set up DOGE with Elon, so back in October, Elon Musk and I, I flew down to Texas, got Elon Musk to do it, and here was our agreement, that Elon was going to cut a trillion dollars of waste, fraud and abuse.
Think about it, we have almost $4 trillion of entitlements, and no one has ever looked at it before. You know Social Security is wrong. You know Medicaid and Medicare are wrong.
So he's going to cut a trillion and then we'll get rid of all these tax scams that hammer against America, and we're going to raise a trillion dollars of revenue. And our objective under Donald Trump is to balance this budget, and I'm telling you, you watch it, we're going to do it.
WATTERS: If you get savings from these DOGE cuts, are you going to give any of this back to the American people? We keep hearing about these DOGE dividends.
LUTNICK: Well, think about it. Donald Trump announces the External Revenue Service, and his goal is very simple, to abolish -- his goal is to abolish the Internal Revenue Service and let all the outsiders pay.
I mean, this is someone who is focused on America. Let's drive down our waste, fraud and abuse. I'll give you an example -- cruise ships. You ever see a cruise ship with an American flag on their back? They have flags of like Liberia or Panama. None of them pay taxes. None of them pay taxes.
Every super tanker, none pays taxes. Alcohol, all foreign alcohol, no taxes. This is going to end under Donald Trump, and those taxes are going to be paid and Americans' tax rates are going to come down. That's what Donald Trump wants to do, balance our budget and cut our taxes.
I mean, imagine a Democratic senator going against that. What planet are these people on?
WATTERS: Well, you're saying French wine that I guzzle once in a while after a hard week, you're saying we don't throw tariffs up on that, but they tariff Kentucky bourbon?
LUTNICK: So what happens is, when you want French wine, the French wine comes in, and the importer in America charges a high price, and then we don't make any taxes in America on the topic. So think about it, all the spirits, all the wine, all the alcohol doesn't pay tax in America. It's all basically a tax scam, and we are on it, and we are going to fix it for the American people.
We are going to drive down our deficits. And you know what that's going to mean? Interest rates going to come hammering down, cost of mortgages come hammering down.
The President issued an order to build a pipeline on the East Coast of New York called the Constitutional Pipeline.
The Constitutional Pipeline will halve the price of natural gas on the East Coast. Imagine the Democrats turned it down, and Donald Trump turns up, half the price for the whole East Coast, and, you know who is standing in the way, of course, Governor Hochul from that great state of New York, because she'd rather -- she'd rather protect, I don't know, some horny toad frog than have everybody in the East Coast of America pay half for natural gas.
WATTERS: You know, Secretary, I've never seen anyone so excited about saving money. You must love getting your hands on dirty and just cutting taxes, regulation and getting the trade balance -- rebalanced for the American people.
What motivates you?
LUTNICK: Well, you know, look, if you love America and you actually can understand the power of America, then, you know, the way we're being treated, it's like we're the fastest person on Earth. And what the Senator and the Democrats, want to do is they want to take your right hand and hold your right ankle and try to run.
I mean, we are so amazing. We've got the greatest oil. We've got everything. We've got the greatest economy. People don't understand we are a consumer based economy. You and I, we buy stuff. Americans buy stuff.
The Chinese produce stuff. The Chinese can't live without selling us stuff. We've got the power. We've got to use tariffs. We've got to use the External Revenue Service to take care of America and cut the scams, the abuse, the waste, and let's make America great, great, not like great, like 20 years ago. We mean great as in no deficit and basically try to eliminate the Internal Revenue Service and our taxes.
Cut taxes. Try, try to get them down, because we're great, and we collect the money. And it's so exciting, because think about how great America will be under Donald Trump, and what we're trying to do, I just can't imagine a senator calling -- and by the way, these senators called me and said, one of them today, I don't like what Elon Musk is doing. I'm like, what in a world could you possibly not like? You've been in the Senate for 20 years. You haven't cut $1.50 and this guy is going to cut a trillion. You've got the richest guy in the world seeking to cut a trillion dollars.
I'm in love with Elon because he's going to cut a trillion. And I'm telling you, the rest of this administration is going to raise a trillion. That's our goal, balance the budget of the United States of America by the end of Donald Trump's term and I am so pumped up for it, because we are going to make America the greatest country on Earth by a country mile.
WATTERS: All right, Secretary, you have hit the ground running. I'm fired up just listening to you. I can't wait. I just want to go buy things and invest.
LUTNICK: Thank you.
WATTERS: Secretary Lutnick, thank you so much. We really appreciate you joining us and again, congrats on getting confirmed.
LUTNICK: Thank you.
WATTERS: Democrats are now cursing each other out, and Lara Trump has a big announcement.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Numbers, don't lie. Trump is turning America red.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Donald Trump and the Republican Party has changed the electorate. What do I mean by that? Well, let's take a look at party identification, Democrats versus Republicans. You go back to 2017, five points more of the electorate was Democrats than Republicans.
You go to 2021 when Joe Biden was starting out. Look at that, six points more of the electorate was Democrats than Republicans.
But look at what's happened in February of 2025. Look at this, Republicans -- there are more Republicans in the electorate than there are Democrats.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Trump transitioned the Democrat voters. They should be okay with that, right? So what does the left have to say?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): Why does Donald Trump talk about the Gulf of America and putting hotels in Gaza and annexing Canada? He wants to hide the fact from you that their main goal, what they're really pursuing on the floor of the Senate is giving their billionaire buddies a tax break.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Schumer got mocked for looking like Mr. Burns from "The Simpsons," so they forced him to take a class on how to post videos, and now we have TikTok Chuck.
Even Michael Cohen knows the talking points aren't working.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MICHAEL COHEN, FORMER ATTORNEY TO DONALD TRUMP: This is not a joke, and nobody should take it as just some sort of -- let's own the libs and so on. He already owns the libs. Let's be clear about something, while Democrats and libs and whoever else that they want to say are out there, and they're trying to, on a regular basis, denigrate Trump, you know, they make all of these statements about, let me be very clear, that's not the way to beat Donald Trump.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: How does Michael Cohen know how to beat Donald Trump? What's he going to do? Give him bad legal advice?
Democrats have cried wolf too many times. Now the villagers are tuning them out.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEWART: I'm very big on -- and I know it's annoying -- but specificity and nuance, and I think if you cry fascism at every administrative overreach, even the ones that are constitutionally okay, you will find yourself out of fascism bullets.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: The left is lost in the wilderness, and they are looking for a new leader.
How about this guy?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
STEPHEN A. SMITH, HOST, "THE STEPHEN A. SMITH SHOW": If you're the Democrats, that's why Stephen A. Smith is in the news because y'all don't have anybody.
I'm not in the news because I'm here, I'm in the news because the Democratic Party is here. Damn it, lower than that, down at the bottom. They suck right now. Horrible. Because they don't have a voice. Where the hell is the voice?
And they don't have anybody. That's why Stephen A. Smith is a candidate.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: But Democrats don't like that idea. Carville is telling Stephen A. to stick to sports.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CARVILLE: When it comes to politics, he don't know his ass from a hole in the ground. He's on there running his (bleep) mouth about how he may have to run as a Democrat because there's nothing left of the Democratic Party, it has no talent.
Stephen A, are you (bleep) me? Before you start running your (bleep) mouth off about politics, a topic of what you really don't know anything about, you ought to sit back and think about it and call some people and run it by them.
So Stephen A, keep up your (bleep) sports. I enjoy it. I like it, but don't make a fool of yourself anymore and talk about politics.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Democrats fighting amongst themselves, it is a thing of beauty, and I'm here for it. If they were smart, they'd take a chill pill like Fetterman, who's chosen to, "not get engaged and get aggressive and yell or claim extreme things of fascism and that democracy is hanging on by a thread. I'm going to pick my fights," he says.
Meanwhile, George Clooney came out of hiding, the public face of the Democrat coup, just to the late night circuit to tell Trump, eh, good game.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CLOONEY: You know, I've lost a lot of elections. The first -- first time I voted, it was 1980, so I was a Carter guy, and Reagan won, and I lost to some Bushes, and I won with some Clintons and Obamas and I lost.
And, you know, this is democracy, and this is how it works. And you know, what the hell are you supposed to do?
STEPHEN COLBERT, "THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT" HOST: How did it go this time for you? I forgot who you were supporting.
CLOONEY: Well, I don't know, what am I supposed to do? You know, storm the (bleep) Capitol? You know, it is like -- it didn't work out, that's what happened.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
COLBERT: There you go. Next time.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Clooney is wishing Trump good luck, too. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
CLOONEY: You go. I hope you -- I hope you do well, because our country needs it and then we'll meet you in three-and-a-half years and see where we go next. That's part of the thing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Speaking of future elections, Arizona Democrats don't want to fix theirs. Governor Katie Hobbs just shot down a bill that would secure and speed up their elections, which probably is the slowest in the country.
The bill would have modeled the state's election system after Florida, the crown jewel of election management, but Katie said no, blamed voter suppression. Funny how the party that screams about the death of democracy won't fix our democratic process.
Host of Fox's newest show, "My View," Lara Trump joins us now.
First, congrats. We'll get to that in a second.
LARA TRUMP, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "MY VIEW": Thank you.
WATTERS: Can you believe Carville told Stephen A. Smith, stop talking about politics. If you have something to say, run it by me, you fool.
L. TRUMP: You know, if they weren't so hell bent on destroying America, I would actually feel sorry for the Democrats. They are in such a hole. They have no idea who they are. They have nobody who is a star of their party, even a rising star, someone they can actually look to, to lead them. They're very lost, and they did it to themselves.
So yes, I can kind of believe James Carville saying that.
The thing is, they have cried wolf so many times when it comes to Donald Trump and the American people have gotten smart to it.
I mean, think about the Russia collusion hoax. Think about them trying to get hysterical over the Ukraine phone call. They lied just recently and said that Donald Trump would ban IVF. They even went so far this election is to say that gay Americans and people in interracial couples, Donald Trump would put them in internment camps.
It's outrageous.
So the American people have seen through the nonsense. They actually want someone who is working for them, that's why Donald Trump won. That's why Republicans won down ballot, and until the Democrats figure out that they are better off talking about ways to fix our country and help people and not convincing the American people that men can have babies and breastfeed, I think they may want to take a note from the Republicans.
WATTERS: Pretend you're a Democrat, just for fun, and we'll let you go back to be a Republican in a second. What would you do? Would you play possum? Would you work with Donald Trump? Would you just drink heavily?
Any advice?
L. TRUMP: Well, I would certainly keep shaving, which I know some of them don't. I digress.
Look, I think they would be better off, and they would be better served to actually embrace some of the positive change, because it is helping the American people. If you're fighting, Jesse, against transparency and saving billions of our taxpayer dollars, I'm sorry, but you're losing the fight with the American people.
Embrace it. Work alongside President Trump, get great things done, and you can take your own victory lap. I know they don't know what that feels like though.
WATTERS: They're pro-fraud. Did you ever think the Democrats would be pro- fraud?
L. TRUMP: Apparently so. Well, I was the co-chair of the RNC, and I had to work very hard alongside Michael Whatley to ensure transparency and no funny business in our elections, so maybe I knew a little about it.
WATTERS: We thank you for that.
Tell us a little bit about this new show. What time is it on?
L. TRUMP: 9:00 PM Saturday nights, and I think it's different than anything we have on Fox News right now. It's a longer format interview. You will actually get to know the people behind the names that we see in the headlines every day and on television every day, the people who are making the big changes in our country, a lot of them will be part of the administration. I do happen to be a family member with one of them who has assured me he will come on my show.
But across the board, I just want to give the viewers an insight into the personal side of a lot of these people and the agencies and what's going on inside.
WATTERS: Are we going to hear about their deepest, darkest secrets?
L. TRUMP: I will. I'm going to have them spill everything.
WATTERS: All right, well, now I'm watching.
Lara Trump, thank you so much and congratulations.
L. TRUMP: Thank you.
WATTERS: Lie detectors are coming to D.C. Right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: If our enemies weren't already on their toes, now they are. The Air Force just launched a hypersonic nuclear missile off the coast of California. It was just a test designed to demonstrate the readiness and lethality of our military.
The country has been secured in every direction. The border is closed and ICE is working overtime. The Coast Guard just busted a boat full of 20 Chinese and Mexican illegals in the Pacific.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have the first person inside the boat. He is going to be the master. They just climbed underneath. The first person in front of the hull is the master.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hand up. Hands up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Migrant criminals are getting shackled and shipped out. Liberals don't like seeing cuffs, I know, but they're necessary. "The Post" reports, "A chartered commercial passenger plane left Laughlin Air Base with a group of male Haitians. Once they realized they weren't going somewhere in the United States, but back to Haiti, all hell broke loose. The men ripped every window sunshade from their moorings, bent most overhead luggage compartment doors off their hinges. They tore seat cushions off frames, then ripped out their stuffing. They destroyed anything destroyable, as pilots cowered at the controls behind locked cabin doors." Democrats want these guys to walk free.
New York prosecutors just let out two Venezuelan gang bangers who were busted with drugs and guns. They just got a slap on the wrist and are now back on the streets.
Pulling off the largest deportation operation in America is hard enough. We don't need sanctuary cities getting in the way, or leakers.
Kristi Noem is strapping bureaucrats to polygraphs to make sure they're not leaking sensitive information about ICE raids. While Noem plugs the leaks, Trump is cutting off the cash flow.
The President is expected to sign an executive order tonight that terminates all federal taxpayer benefits to illegals. Every Federal agency will have to identify and kill programs that financially help illegals.
They'll also have to ensure not a single Federal penny, even though we're not using them anymore, support sanctuary policies. Taking care of Biden's migrants alone could have cost us half a tril, that's over now.
Will Cain is the host of "The Will Cain Show." Could you imagine piloting an aircraft and you have like 50 Haitians ripping seat cushions apart and throwing things at the locked cabin?
WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST, "FOX & FRIENDS" WEEKEND: I'm really glad that that plane managed to maintain its airspace, didn't come crashing down as it is torn apart from within.
Jesse, I don't know if you have a better illustration, if you could come up with a better illustration of entitlement. There's so many different problems with the fact that we're spending money on illegal immigrants, but one of the problems is the sense of entitlement that is bred.
They've come to expect that if you come to America, there's wonderful incentives, and you should get those incentives. You should be able to stay here, you should be able to live on the taxpayer dollar. You should be able to have free services, and if not, on our way back to Haiti, we'll tear the whole thing down. We're bringing down the plane.
WATTERS: Do you believe that Noem is using polygraph on her staff? I mean, that's probably never happened before in the government, but, I mean, we should have been doing this years ago. We could have cracked so many cases wide open. We would have never had any more leakers.
CAIN: I have to admit, Jesse, I do have to admit that I do not like the image of the government strapping people to polygraphs, there is something positively disturbing.
WATTERS: I know, but Noem doing it. Like Kristi Noem of all people.
CAIN: However, Jesse, yes, you've got leakers within the Federal government doing what they shouldn't do, disrupting ICE raids and helping out criminals, strap them to a polygraph find out who's helping the criminals.
WATTERS: I mean, these are dangerous ICE raids, and if you're getting tipped off, and then Jose is there with a 12-gauge --
CAIN: Yes.
WATTERS: -- it's not going to go well. I mean, they have Fox News correspondents embedded with Homan. It puts everyone's lives at risk. Not that Fox News correspondents' lives are more important, but you know how much I cherish my colleagues here, Will.
What do you think -- where do you think this thing goes? These deportations, they're moving, but we're getting resistance with these sanctuary cities. He just took all the cash away. What comes next?
CAIN: Well, I don't -- I feel like the resistance is somewhat impotent. I feel like Homan and Trump and Noem are pursuing this vigorously and successfully , and where it goes, I hope, is only more success.
And here's the point on Trump's newest executive order taking away the ability of federal dollars to go to illegal immigrants. When you or I use the word federal dollars, I think that masks what we're really talking about.
Remember, we pay taxes.
WATTERS: Right.
CAIN: Everyone watching pays taxes. Taxes are not voluntary. They are taken from you at the force of violence. If you don't pay your taxes and you question whether or not there's going to be violence on that action, ask somebody who's ever been convicted of tax evasion. You'd be forced to go to jail.
WATTERS: Well, unless you're Hunter Biden. You don't have to pay taxes if you're Hunter, but you're right. These are our dollars. That's such a great point.
CAIN: That's right.
WATTERS: And if I'm a Venezuelan migrant and I have a hotel room in the city, and they're giving me culturally appropriate lunches, and all of a sudden that room and board dries up, I'm self-deporting. I'm not going to stick around and sleep on these streets. It's like six degrees, Will. You wouldn't know you're in Texas.
CAIN: It is tonight, isn't it? It's 20-something in Texas, which I think is six in New York. I think it's the same on the barometric, you know, subjective feeling list. It's really cold in Texas.
On the tax paying point, can we just be clear then? That's our money that is being sent to someone who is in this country illegally. Stop. Stop.
As for drying up what you just said and self-deportation, we have to understand the power of incentive. All this money that's being given to illegal immigrants is incentive to continue the process of illegal immigration. So I agree with you. Dry it up by drying up the incentive.
WATTERS: All right and Fox is going to start putting people on polygraphs here and Will, you're next. We will be in Texas tomorrow.
CAIN: I'll air it on "The Will Cain Show." I'll air it right there on "The Will Cain Show." First question --
WATTERS: Four o'clock Eastern, everybody. Check it out.
CAIN: What do you think of Jesse Watters?
WATTERS: Right before "The Five."
CAIN: First question on the polygraph.
WATTERS: We don't have to strap you to anything to know the answer to that. You love me. See you later.
CAIN: We do.
WATTERS: Monica Lewinsky comes clean.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Watters' Cooler. Let's bring in American Values PAC spokeswoman, Caitlin Sinclair.
All right, Caitlin, LA Mayor Karen Bass, finally, finally launching an investigation into herself. It's over why she abandoned her city ahead of the devastating wildfires. Watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MAYOR KAREN BASS (D) LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: That type of preparation didn't happen.
KTTV REPORTER: But what do you mean there were warnings you weren't aware of? Because I know we were talking about it on the news. A lot of people were talking about the problems -- warning that this was going to be a huge storm.
BASS: So, it didn't reach that level to me, to say something terrible can happen, and maybe you shouldn't have gone on the trip.
KTTV REPORTER: Why didn't it happen?
BASS: But to me -- I don't know. I mean, I think that that's one of the things we need to look at.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: It is like O.J. searching for the real killer, Caitlin.
CAITLIN SINCLAIR, SPOKESPERSON, AMERICAN VALUES PAC: Well, it's good to know we're just investigating ourselves now, Jesse. I would formally like to open an inquiry into some of the men I was allowed to date in my own 20s. I mean, who saw the aspiring actor with no job, and said, yes, let's make this happen. I want names.
But seriously, is anyone surprised by this answer?
WATTERS: No.
SINCLAIR: Because this is kind of, in my opinion, the cornerstone to the Democrat philosophy: Blame everybody else, take no accountability, and that's why they continue to blame Orange Man, right? They have nobody else to blame. That's why we have Democrats blaming racism for why some of their blue cities have a soaring crime rate. Of course, not their own failing policies.
Accountability is just not in their wheelhouse. So I guess investigating yourself, that's just a Tuesday.
WATTERS: I think we're going to find out what the investigation is going to say, it's Trump's fault.
SINCLAIR: Probably. I wouldn't be surprised.
WATTERS: Next up, Monica Lewinsky is back with a podcast. In her first episode, she addresses the elephant, or I should say, the donkey in the room.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
MONICA LEWINSKY, HOST, "RECLAIMING WITH MONICA LEWINSKY": Very unfortunately, I fell in love with my boss, who was married and also the most powerful man in the world. You know, I think what followed was an inappropriate relationship that lasted for two years.
There were real emotions involved, but I think I believe that there was a future. I think I believe that I mattered a lot more than I did.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: She thought she was going to be First Lady.
SINCLAIR: It's so unfortunate, I fell in love with my boss. Okay, Jesse, so Meghan Markle last month announced her new show, and you think it could not possibly get more out of touch and worse than this, and then someone even more irrelevant and boring announces their new podcast.
But this kind of addresses this larger problem, which is the lack of female role models for the young generations right now.
I mean, think about it. We're looking at people like Cardi B twerking, we're looking at Kamala Harris. You know, Kamala didn't-earn-it Harris, I should say. And now someone like Monica Lewinsky?
WATTERS: I'm just so impressed that Bill Clinton had such game that he led her on so well that she thought she was going to be the First Lady. Got to give it to Bubba. He's still got it.
And in the past month, we've seen a lot of plane crashes. Gayle King blaming it on DOGE, but the CEO of Delta said, eh not so fast.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GAYLE KING, CBS NEWS: You know, the Trump administration recently fired many employees of the FAA administration. Do those cuts -- do those cuts worry you? And do you think that impacts the safety?
ED BASTIAN, CEO, DELTA AIR LINES: The cuts do not affect us, Gayle. I've been in close communication with the Secretary of Transportation.
The reality is, there's over 50,000 people that work at the FAA and the cuts, as I understand were 300 people, and they were in noncritical safety --
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: Oh, that hurts.
SINCLAIR: Blaming President Trump for this plane crash. The plane crash, actually, this airline had a rule of no men. They wanted to hire as many females as possible. Talk about DEI.
Personally, if I walk onto an airplane, and I just see an all-female crowd, I'm running out. I want an old, Grumpy Man, that's who I want flying my plane.
WATTERS: Are you saying women crashed this plane in Toronto?
SINCLAIR: I mean, it hasn't been denied, Jesse.
WATTERS: Okay, we'll have to look into that.
Caitlin, thank you so much. Only flies with men.
More PRIMETIME straight ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: We were supposed to have Director Tulsi Gabbard on the show tonight, but something came up last second, kind of a big deal, kind of more important than coming on my show, but we hope to have her tomorrow.
Let's do some texts.
Joe from Chicago: Lutnick got me fired up. I'm already guzzling wine and buying things on Amazon.
Dave from Burnsville, Minnesota: Could Howard Lutnick be the new Stephen Miller?
I'm interested, not in a gay way, but I'm interested.
Ken from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: Real men don't drink French wine.
Yes, they do. Trust me. What kind of men do you think -- never mind.
Jeff from Bridgeton, Maine: Seriously, windmills in Nigeria? Let me guess the prince requested that grant.
Jeff and Laci -- oh, that's cute -- from Boyne Falls, Michigan: I can't wait to see the DOGE haters burn their dividend checks in the streets.
You can always send the check back to the Treasury if you don't want it, libs.
Victor, from Modesto, California: If you had Gutfeld strapped to a polygraph, what's the first question you would ask him?
Didn't need to. Gutfeld has no filter. He tells me everything. It is actually annoying. He never shuts up. King of Late Night, whatever.
I'm Watters, and this is my world.

Load-Date: February 20, 2025


End of Document
