




Forbes.com
February 20, 2025 Thursday


Copyright 2025 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 3358 words
Byline: Molly Bohannon, Forbes Staff
Highlight: DOGE has had mixed results accessing data from government institutions.
Body


Topline
The Trump administration and the Treasury Department agreed to stop the Elon Musk-led Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE, from accessing taxpayer data within IRS systems, according toThe Washington Post, the latest development around DOGE s attempts to access federal data as part of an effort to reduce government spending.
<figure>
<figcaption>
Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, joined by his son X, delivers remarks alongside U.S. President Donald Trump during an executive order signing in the Oval Office at the White House on February 11, 2025 in Washington, DC. Trump signed an executive order implementing the Department of Government Efficiency s (DOGE) "workforce optimization initiative," which, according to Trump, will encourage agencies to limit hiring and reduce the size of the federal government. (Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)
Getty Images
</figcaption></figure>
Timeline
Feb. 20Gavin Kliger, a DOGE software engineer, will only have read access to anonymized tax data, thePostreported, noting the Treasury Department and White House came to an agreement stopping DOGE from accessing sensitive taxpayer data like bank accounts, Social Security numbers, payment balances and medical information in some cases.
Feb. 18U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan denied a request for a restraining order against Musk and DOGE from 14 states that would have blocked the agency from firing federal workers or accessing federal data. Chutkan said the states did not show they would suffer  imminent, irreparable harm,  though she didsayin the ruling the plaintiffs  legitimately call into question what appears to be the unchecked authority of an unelected individual and an entity that was not created by Congress and over which it has no oversight. 
Feb. 17Chutkan held a court hearing over Democratic state attorneys general s request for the court to immediately stop DOGE from accessing data and firing federal workers because they argue Musk is an  agent of chaos  unlawfully influencing the federal government with a lawyer for the Trump administration arguing the states don t have a case because he claimed Musk doesn t have  any formal or actual authority to make any government decisions himself. 
Chutkan has not yet ruled on the states  request but said she thought the government s claims defending Musk went  too far  noting Musk is a private citizen whose organization has essentially been granted access to the  entire workings of the federal government  and also chastised the Trump administration after its lawyers could not confirm how many federal employees DOGE had recently fired.
Feb. 17DOGE isseeking accessto a critical Internal Revenue Service system, the Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS), that could give the Musk-led agency the ability to see financial details of every taxpayer and business in the country, with CNNreportingMonday morning a DOGE official is expected to be  imminently  granted access.
On its X account, DOGEalso saidit is  looking into  a purported anomaly in the Social Security system that lists millions of Americans over the age of 110 which Musk implied was an example of  vampire  recipients for Social Security assistance.
Feb. 13Attorneys general from New Mexico, Arizona, Michigan and 11 other statessuedMusk, DOGE and President Donald Trump alleging Musk s  virtually unchecked authority  is unconstitutional, saying Trump  transformed a minor position that was formerly responsible for managing government websites into a designated agent of chaos without limitation. 
11:40 p.m EST, Feb. 12DOGEtweetedout that its official site was live, though the site only had a feed of what the agency had been tweeting on X, a page for people apply to work with DOGE, a chart explaining the breakdown of government employees, and a savings page that read:  Receipts coming soon, no later than Valentine's day  . 
In the post announcing the website which went live almost 24 hours after Musktold ABC Newsall of DOGE s actions were being posted to the website to increase transparency the departmentsaidit  will constantly be working to maximize the site s utility and transparency. 
5:45 p.m. EST, Feb. 11Trump issues an executive order directing government agencies to consult with DOGE on hiring approvals, hiring ratios and hiring plans aimed at slashing the federal workforce and  eliminating waste, bloat, and insularity. 
The order calls for massive cuts in the federal workforce, including a directive  that each agency hire no more than one employee for every four employees that depart,  with certain exceptions like the military and law enforcement.
4:30 p.m. EST, Feb. 11Speaking in the Oval Office with Trump, Musk defended DOGE s cuts, saying they ve done them transparently by posting their actions on X and on the DOGE website, and he said he is trying to implement  common-sense controls that should be present that haven t been present  to federal spending.
 We had no idea we were going to find this much,  Trump said of DOGE s work so far, adding:  We re finding tremendous fraud and tremendous abuse. 
When asked how he responds to people saying he is taking over the government in a non-transparent way, Musk said,  the people voted for major government reform, there should be no doubt about that ... they ll get what they voted for   and that s what democracy is all about. 
3:41 p.m. EST, Feb. 11Trump s press secretary Karoline Leavittpostedon X, formerly known as Twitter, that Musk and Trump were in the Oval Office to  give the TRUTH about DOGE! 
Feb. 11Hegseth told reporters  there s plenty of places where we want the keen eye of DOGE  to look for efficiency measures, but he said  we ll do it in coordination, we re not going to do things that are to the detriment of American operational or tactical capabilities, multiple outletsreported (it s unclear what kinds of cuts DOGE could target, or how large they ll be, especially since members of both parties have historically beenreluctantto cut defense spending).
Feb. 8U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer issued an order early Saturday blocking Musk s government efficiency agency from accessing Treasury payments, citing an increased risk of hacking of sensitive information, and ordered those who are now prohibited from accessing these systems to destroy any information downloaded since Jan. 20.
8:00 p.m. EST, Feb. 7Some 19 Democratic state attorneys-general are suing Trump and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent for letting DOGE access the government s payment systems, alleging the move violates the law, endangers personal information and could open the door to DOGE unconstitutionally slashing spending that s already been greenlit by Congress.
3:13 p.m. EST, Feb. 7Marko Elez a DOGE staffer who resigned Thursday after the Wall Street Journal uncovered numerous offensive comments from the self-proclaimed  racist  is coming back to work for the agency, Muskposted to X, commenting,  To err is human, to forgive divine  (hours earlier, hepolled X userson whether Elez should return).
Musk s announcement on the 25-year-old Elez was in response to Vance s support of the return.
2:55 p.m. EST, Feb. 7Forbesresurfacesa number of problematic social media posts by 25-year-old DOGE emissary Gavin Kliger, including one calling former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton  retarded  and a bevy of anti-immigration posts.
2:41 p.m. EST, Feb. 7Bloombergreports19-year-0ld DOGE agent Edward Coristine was fired from a previous internship for leaking sensitive company information to a competitor.
11:26 a.m. EST, Feb. 7Vancepostedto  bring [Elez] back,  referring to Elez, who resigned after The Wall Street Journalreportedon his prior social media activity (a White House official confirmed to Forbes that Elez resigned, but did not comment on the reason for his departure).
 I obviously disagree with some of Elez s posts, but I don t think stupid social media activity should ruin a kid s life,  explained Vance.
Vance said he  obviously disagree[s] with some of Elez s posts,  which included a call to  normalize Indian hate  (Vance s wife Usha Vance is the daughter of Indian immigrants).
9:14 a.m. EST, Feb. 7Musk appeared to test public opinion about Elez on his X social media site, putting out apollasking if the administration should  bring back @DOGE staffer who made inappropriate statements via a now deleted pseudonym  and more than 80% of respondents supported Elez s return.
Musk, who did not reference Elez by name, whitewashed the posts as  inappropriate,  though Elez self-identified as  racist,  supported  eugenic immigration policy  and slammed interracial marriage.
 True,  Muskrespondedto an X user calling for Musk to  have a talk to about the racist stuff. Not cool. 
8:09 p.m. EST, Feb. 6Rep. Val Hoyle, D-Ore., one of the two Democratic members on the 29-person DOGE panel,announcedher resignation from the caucus in a statement highly critical of  unelected billionaire Elon Musk. 
Musk and his  lackeys  are set on  burning down the government and the law to line his own pockets and rip off Americans across the country who depend on government services to live with dignity,  according to Hoyle, who slammed DOGE s  corrupt  access to Treasury Department payments data and the use of  intimidation tactics to terrorize  government workers.
4 p.m. EST, Feb. 6Elez, one of the two primary DOGE emissaries embedded in the Treasury Department, resigned from the Musk-led agency, the White HousetoldThe Wall Street Journal, after the publication uncovered Elez s ties to a since-deleted X account with racist posts including calling for  eugenic immigration policy  and to  normalize Indian hate. 
The 25-year-old Elez previously worked for Musk s X and SpaceX, according to the Journal.
A White House official confirmed Elez s resignation to Forbes, declining to comment on the circumstances of his exit.
2 p.m. EST, Feb. 6Treasury Secretary Scott BessenttoldBloomberg DOGE is not  tinkering  with the government payment systems the agency has access to, and Musk s agency is conducting an  operational review  of government payments, not an  ideological review  (Musk s statements have often veered toward the latter,callingthe U.S. Agency for International Development a  criminal organization. )
 Elon and I are completely aligned in terms of cutting waste and increasing accountability and transparency for the American people,  Bessent added.
Feb. 6People with ties to DOGE are using AI accessed via Microsoft s Azure service to sort through Education Department data with  personally identifiable information for people who manage grants, as well as sensitive internal financial data  while they look for ways to save the government money across departments, TheWashington Postreported, citing two unnamed people (a department spokesperson told the Post they re looking for efficiencies, and there s  nothing inappropriate or nefarious ).
Feb. 6Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly approved anagreementthat grants Tom Krause and Marko Elez two Musk associates working as special government employees the ability to see Treasury Department data  as needed  on a read-only basis.
The agreement is a temporary fix that will remain in place until Kollar-Kotelly makes a further judgment on thelawsuit, which was brought by nonprofits and unions seeking to limit DOGE s access to the Treasury Department s private financial data.
8:40 a.m. EST, Feb. 6DOGE workers have access to employee data from the Office of Personnel Management, essentially the federal government s human resources arm, The Washington PostreportedThursday, citing four anonymous U.S. officials the data includes addresses, demographics and Social Security numbers, and DOGE s access includes the ability to edit employee records (there s no evidence DOGE staff have edited any records).
Feb. 5Justice Department lawyersagreed Wednesdayto a proposal that would limit DOGE s access to the critical Treasury payment system following a lawsuit, with only two Musk associates now permitted to have  read-only  access.
Feb. 5The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services released astatementon its collaboration with DOGE and said two senior agency veterans are working with DOGE and they are  taking a thoughtful approach to see where there may be opportunities for more effective and efficient use of resources in line with meeting the goals of President Trump. 
12:01 p.m. EST, Feb. 5Muskquote-tweeted a poston X, formerly known as Twitter, with a screenshot of The Wall Street Journal s reporting on DOGE being at Medicare and said,  Yeah, this is where the big money fraud is happening. 
11 a.m. EST, Feb. 5DOGE team members were onsite at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to look for fraud or waste,BloombergandThe Wall Street Journalreported, citing people familiar with the matter who said DOGE representatives had access to payment and contracting systems.
5:40 p.m. EST, Feb. 4The Treasury sent aletterto Congress stating it is  committed to safeguarding the integrity and security of the system  and the  Fiscal Service is confident those protections are robust and effective,  adding that Tom Krause, who is affiliated with DOGE but is a Treasury employee, has  read-only access to the coded data of the Fiscal Service s payment systems  in an effort to review efficiency.
4 p.m. EST, Feb. 4Sens. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and Ron Wyden, D-Ore.,requestedthe Government Accountability Office investigate Bessent s  decision to grant access to sensitive government payment systems to Elon Musk and other  DOGE employees, specifically asking them to identify if there are guardrails in place to protect  economic and national security and Americans  privacy  and ensure there are no conflicts of interest with Musk.
3:45 p.m EST, Feb. 3Senate Democrats held a news conference at which theyexpressed their concernabout Musk getting access to the federal payment system, with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., saying  an unelected shadow government is conducting a hostile takeover of the federal government,  and Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., saying Musk was  hijacking our nation's most sensitive financial systems and its checkbook. 
Feb. 3The American Federation of Government Employees and other unionssued the Treasury Departmentin an effort to reduce DOGE s access to Treasury data.
Feb. 1TheAssociated PressandThe New York Timesreported Bessent granted DOGE access to the sensitive Treasury data, giving Musk a  powerful tool to monitor and potentially limit government spending,  according to the Times.
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day s headlines. Text  Alerts  to  or sign up .
What Is Doge?
Musk floated the idea of DOGE in September before Trump was elected, and shortly after, Trumpsaidhe would create it and have Musk lead it. After he won the election, Trump appointed Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy to lead the commission and advised them to  slash excess regulations, cut wasteful expenditures, and restructure Federal Agencies.  DOGE was officially created via anexecutive orderon Trump s first day in office that restructured an existing entity, the U.S. Digital Service, to be the U.S. DOGE Service. It is not a new federal agency or department, and many members of the team are designated as  special government employees,  according to the Congressional Research Service.
What Authority Does Doge Have?
There is no clear outline in the executive order establishing DOGE about what authority it has. Per the order, the role of it is  to implement the President s DOGE Agenda, by modernizing Federal technology and software to maximize governmental efficiency and productivity.  The order said the DOGE administrator will work with agency heads to improve the efficiency of software and how agencies work with each other and collect data. DOGE officials have reportedly been gaining access to sensitive data and information upon request.
Does Elon Musk Work For The Government?
Musk is a  special government employee.  The Justice Departmentdefinesthe role as any employee expected to work for the federal government for up to 130 days, and they are prohibited from participating in matters that may have financial conflicts of interest or from using their role to influence an election or engage in political activity while on duty. The role of a special government employee is subject to most rules and guidelines that apply to federal employees, but they can be  less restrictive  because the role is temporary. Musk isreportedlynot being paid for his work in the White House.
Who Is Working For Doge? 
It s unclear who works for DOGE. On Nov. 14, 2024, DOGE s account on Xaskedpeople to direct message the account with their resumes if they were  super high-IQ small-government revolutionaries willing to work 80+ hours per week on unglamorous cost-cutting.  On Feb. 2,Wiredpublished an article alleging they were able to identify six engineers between the ages of 19 and 24 working for DOGE who had ties to other Musk companies or billionaire Peter Thiel. Katie Drummond, Wired s global editorial director,told CNN it s a little bit difficult to ascertain exactly what they are doing,  but Wired was able to determine they are  working at the behest of Musk ... on a number of engineering related tasks.  But, in alettersent from eight Senate Democrats to White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles requesting more information on what DOGE is doing, the lawmakers said  no information has been provided to Congress or the public as to who has been formally hired under DOGE. 
What Departments Is Doge Working In?
DOGE has appeared to so far do most of its work with theUSAID, which Musk has said without evidence is  incredibly politically partisan  and a  radical-left political psy op.  Since Musk began discussing USAID on Monday, the agency has placed direct hire personnel globally on administrative leave, with few exceptions, and some USAID employees were seen clearing out their desks. Beyond that,DOGE saidon Jan. 24 that in its first 80 hours of operating, it canceled  approx $420M of current/impending contracts  and two leases while focusing  mainly on DEI contracts and unoccupied buildings.  On Thursday,The Washington Postreported DOGE was analyzing the Education Department s spending using artificial intelligence. It s suspected Musk was involved in the Office of Personnel Management'sbuyout offerto all federal employees, and hepreviously suggestedthe government should close the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was directed earlier this week to pause its work,Reutersreported.
What Are Democrats Doing To Stop Doge?
On Tuesday, more than 1,000 protesters gathered outside the Treasury building in Washington, D.C., to protest DOGE s actions, and more than two dozen Democratic lawmakers spoke at the gathering, theAssociated Pressreported. Democrats also teased the  Stop the Steal  Act on Tuesday, which House Minority Leader Hakeep Jeffries, D-N.Y.,saidwould  prevent [DOGE s] unlawful access from taking place.  Democrats tried to subpoena Musk on Wednesday to get more information on his actions and DOGE s work, but congressional Republicans blocked the subpoena,ABC Newsreported. The top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, Rep. Gerald Connolly, D-Va., said Musk s role is  puzzling  for many people, adding:  Who is this unelected billionaire that he can attempt to dismantle federal agencies, fire people, transfer them, offer them early retirement and have sweeping changes to agencies without any congressional review, oversight or concurrence?  Democrats have limited power in opposing DOGE, or Trump s actions more broadly, though, as Republicans control the House and Senate.
Further Reading 
Unions Sue To Stop Elon Musk s DOGE From Accessing Treasury Department Data(Forbes)
Elon Musk s Team Now Has Access to Treasury s Payments System(New York Times)
Elon Musk s DOGE Team Mines for Fraud at Medicare and Medicaid Agency CMS(Bloomberg)
What Is Elon Musk's Role, Exactly? White House Calls Him 'Special Government Employee' Here s What That Means(Forbes)

Load-Date: March 6, 2025


End of Document
