




The Independent (United Kingdom)
January 29, 2025 Wednesday 6:29 PM EST


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd  All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS, US politics news & LAWSUITS NEWS
Length: 439 words
Byline: Alex Woodward
Body


The  has abruptly rescinded a directive that threatened to freeze billions of dollars in federal assistance.
The notice from the  on Wednesday followed a  that temporarily blocked 's administration from freezing funds across government agencies, with lawsuits accusing the president of brazenly unconstitutional threats to critical funding.
A two-sentence memo from acting White House Office of Management and Budget director Matthew Vaeth simply states that a previous directive is "rescinded," and directs questions to government lawyers.
The office is still expected to continue reviewing government grants and assistance, and could try to block funding if officials believe it runs afoul of Trump's ideologically driven commands to abandon anti-discrimination and equity efforts.
A lawsuit from a coalition of nonprofit organizations and small businesses warned that the order "will have a devastating impact on hundreds of thousands of grant recipients" who depend on the steady flow of grant money that they've already been awarded.
Another lawsuit from 23 states also sought a court order to immediately halt the administration's order, which they say imperils billions of dollars in aid to their states.
Vaeth's two-page memo this week directed federal agencies to "temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all federal financial assistance."
That includes "other relevant agency activities that may be implicated" by Trump's sweeping , "including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal," according to the memo.
The memo sent nonprofits and public programs that support low-income families and vulnerable Americans into a tailspin Tuesday, fearing imminent cuts to disaster relief, healthcare, childcare, infrastructure support and groups that support homeless people and veterans, among a wide range of other programs that depend on federal funding, from suicide prevention to support for domestic violence survivors.
A subsequent memo from the White House to members of Congress on Tuesday sought to clarify the "pause," which White House press secretary  told reporters is meant to "ensure that all of the money going out from Washington, D.C., is in line with the president's agenda."
Democratic officials and legal analysts have argued that Trump's order violates Congress's constitutional authority and federal law that prohibits the president from blocking funds appropriated by lawmakers.
This is a developing story

Load-Date: January 30, 2025


End of Document
