




Seawanhaka: Long Island University - Brooklyn Campus
February 11, 2025 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 532 words
Byline: Isabela Rangel
Body


In the recent flurry of executive orders being put out by the Trump Administration, all federal loans and grants supplied by the government were set to be frozen until further review. A briefing sent out late on January 28 attempted to put this order in effect, halting all funding the following night and causing a nationwide panic amongst government-dependent organizations. 
The decision fell in line with the string of executive orders put out by Republican re-elect President Trump. The pause was done in efforts to move the money into other projects that greatly concerned Trump's policy agenda, including the recent crackdown on immigration issues in the US. 
The announcement, made by director of the Office of Management and Budget Matthew J. Vaeth, states that "Federal agencies must temporarily pause all activities related to obligation or disbursement of all Federal financial assistance, and other relevant agency activities that may be implicated by the executive orders, including, but not limited to, financial assistance for foreign aid, nongovernmental organizations, DEI, woke gender ideology, and the green new deal."
The vague notice put out by the OMB had done little to reassure the countless state programs and nonprofit organizations that heavily rely on government funding. The statement, which did not specify which aid would be halted, sparked mass confusion. This was especially seen in Social Security and medicare departments, which were never meant to be included in Trump's executive order.
It didn't take long for the order to be temporarily halted by two federal district judges before later confirming a complete rescission of Vaeth's memo the following day, but this does not mean people are in the clear just yet. 
Many organizations will continue to feel the effects of the brief blockage for months to come, with some stating that their funding remained frozen well into this week, despite the recession. Others were forced to lay off staff and cut back on certain services, worried that any sudden movements would startle Congress into another drastic change.
People gather to support federal funding and protest President Trump's order to pause all federal loans and grants near the White House (Photo via Ken Cenedo/Reuters)
Following the federal funding freeze, White House officials continue to emphasize that they will continue to review federal expenditures, particularly those involving organizations that conflict with executive orders aimed at ending "radical and wasteful government DEI programs." 
As legal challenges and administrative reviews continue to unfold, the full impact of the federal funding freeze remains uncertain. With the initial move sparking significant debate among both the White House and civilians, critics warn of the economic disruption and pushback that is already well in tow. 
While Congress continues to debate the matter, federal agencies and grant recipients are bracing for potential long-term consequences. In the coming weeks, court rulings will likely define the future of the freeze and determine whether the Trump administration's efforts to curb spending on nonprofit organizations will gain full legal footing.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
