




thetimes.co.uk
January 30, 2025 Thursday 5:40 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 2682 words
Byline: Charlotte McDonald-Gibson, Washington | Tom Parfitt | Kieran Gair
Highlight: The 64 people on the aircraft included crew and at least 14 figure skaters with their families
Body


The 67 people killed after a plane collided with a military helicopter in Washington included young figure skaters returning home with their coaches and parents from a training camp in Kansas.
At least 14 people on board the American Eagle Flight 5342 from Wichita, Kansas, were linked to American figure skating. They include elite coaches and future stars. Officials from the tight-knit sport have said that the losses will be felt for a generation.
Other victims include a group of friends returning from a duck hunting trip, and much-loved cabin crew.
This is the information known so far about the victims.
                    Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov                   
Two of the first victims named were the coaches and former Russian world champions Evgenia Shishkova, 52, and Vadim Naumov, 55, who were married.
The married couple from Russia won the World Championship in pairs figure skating in 1994 in Japan and competed at two Winter Olympics: 1992 in Albertville, France, and 1994 in Lillehammer, Norway, placing fifth and fourth.
After completing their dancing career the couple moved to the United States in the late 1990s and worked as coaches at the International Skating Center of Connecticut. They moved to Massachusetts in 2017 and became coaches at the Skating Club of Boston.
Their students include their 23-year-old son Maxim Naumov, who was born in Connecticut in 2001 and became US junior national champion in 2020. He had been competing in Kansas but was not on board the plane.
Vladimir Naumov, Vadim’s father, told the Russian newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda he had been unable to contact his son. “When I last phoned my son I could not get through already,” he said from St Petersburg. “He had crashed.”

Vadim’s mother, who was not named, said: “When [Vadim last] called us he was getting ready to fly with the kids to the competition … They were expected to perform well. They were flying to claim victory. They were in a good mood. They were good kids with him. Probably they also died.”
Two days before the crash, Shishkova and Naumov had posted about their son on their Instagram page, calling his performance at the competition “beautiful and emotional”. They wrote: “Once again, Maxim made us all proud.” 
                   Inna Volyanskaya                   
The 58-year-old former pairs skater, who performed for the Soviet Union, was also on board. After retiring from competition Volyanskaya skated in ice shows, including with Torvill and Dean and the Russian All-Stars. She was a coach at the Washington Figure Skating Club, according to its website.
Natalya Bolshakova, a friend, told the Russian newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda it was “such a shock” to learn of the tragedy. “She was so restrained; she kept her emotions to herself,” Bolshakova said. “She never said anything bad about anybody, whatever happened … It’s a terrible sorrow for us.”
Russian media said Volyanskaya had lived in the US for a long time and worked as a trainer at Ashburn Ice House in Ashburn, Virginia. She had travelled to the national development camp in Wichita with two of her young students.
Spencer Lane, 16, and Christine Lane
Spencer Lane, 16, was a member of the Skating Club of Boston and was travelling home from Wichita with his mother Christine. “Spencer — in the best way possible — was a crazy kid, highly talented, incredibly talented, has not been skating that long and just rocketing to the top of the sport,” said Zeghibe.

Spencer shared an image from inside the plane on the runway at Wichita airport on his Instagram account shortly before take-off. He also shared a post about his excitement at taking part in the national development camp.
“It has been my goal almost ever since I became aware that it was a thing,” he wrote. “I learnt so much new information that I can apply to my everyday life, and met so many amazing people.”
                   Jinna Han, 15, and Jin Han                   
Jinna Han, another teenager, and her mother, Jin Han, were also on the plane, Zeghibe said. He described Jinna as “a wonderful kid [with] wonderful parents, great athlete, great competitor, loved by all”. Her mother was “wonderful, pleasant, polite … always supportive of not just Jinna, her daughter, but every athlete … a role-model parent in youth sport”, he said.
Alexandr Kirsanov
Another former Russian ice dancer turned coach who died in the collision was identified by his wife as Alexandr Kirsanov. Natalya Gudin said she had “lost everything”.

Gudin, also an ice skating coach, decided to stay home in Delaware while Kirsanov attended the camp. She said she spoke to her husband as he boarded the flight on Wednesday.
“I lost my husband, I lost my students, I lost my friends,” she told ABC News. “I need my husband back. I need his body back.”
Sam Lilley
American Airlines has not yet confirmed the identity of the two pilots and two cabin crew, but the first officer was identified by his father on Facebook as Sam Lilley, 28.
“I was so proud when Sam became a pilot. Now it hurts so bad I can’t even cry myself to sleep,” Timothy Lilley wrote. He posted a photograph of Lilley standing by a small plane holding what appeared to be a certificate. “I know I’ll see him again but my heart is breaking. He was doing great in his career and his personal life. He was engaged to get married in the fall.”
He told Fox News in Atlanta that “this is undoubtedly the worst day of my life”. A former helicopter pilot himself, he said he believed from the evidence he had seen that the helicopter was in the flight path of the plane. “The army pilot made a grave error. It hurts me because those are my brothers, and now my son is dead,” he said.
                   Ian Epstein                   
One of the two cabin crew aboard the flight was identified by his wife as Ian Epstein, a 53-year-old flight attendant from Charlotte, North Carolina.
His wife Debi Epstein wrote on Facebook that it was “with a very heavy heart and extreme sadness” that she and her children confirmed: “Ian Epstein was one of the flight attendants on American Airlines Flight 5342 that collided last night when they were landing in DC. Please pray for Ian and our family as we travel to DC.”
Jonathan Campos
The captain of the American Airlines flight was 34-year-old Jonathan Campos. 
His aunt, Beverly Lane, told the New York Times that Campos had wanted to be a pilot since the age of three.
“I think he wanted to be free, and be able to fly and soar like a bird,” Lane said. She told the newspaper she talked with Campos on Wednesday, just before the flight.
He told her that he was looking forward to an upcoming Caribbean cruise with family. 
Campos was a 2015 graduate of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Florida, where he studied aeronautical science, according to the university.
                   Asra Hussain Raza                   
CBS News reported that the 26-year-old graduate of the University of Indiana and Columbia University was among the dead. Her father-in-law, Hashim Raza, told the network Raza had recently relocated to Washington with her husband for a consulting position.
Brielle Beyer, 12, and Justyna Magdalena Beyer
Also reported dead are Brielle Beyer, 12, and her mother, Justyna, who lived in a Virginia suburb of Washington. They were in Wichita so Brielle could sharpen her ice skating skills. “We’re heartbroken,” Justyna Beyer’s sister, Mariola Witkowska, said. “We’re just in shock.”
Brielle, she said, had been skating “her whole life,” and her mother shared her passion. “Brielle and ice skating was pretty much her life,” Witkowska said.
Ryan O’Hara, Black Hawk crew chief
The Black Hawk crew chief who died in the Washington crash has been identified as Ryan O’Hara, 29.
O’Hara, originally from Gwinnett county, Georgia, is survived by his wife and one-year-old son.
His death was confirmed by the Parkview High School’s Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, where he served as a cadet before graduating in 2014.
Three Black Hawk crew members from the 12th Aviation Battalion based at Fort Balfour in Virginia were on a nighttime training mission when their helicopter collided with an American Airlines jet.
In a Facebook post, the high school’s Marine training corps organisation said O’Hara would be fondly remembered as a hardworking, dedicated individual who was a vital member of the Marine reserve’s rifle team.
                   Andrew Eaves                    
The second soldier killed in the crash was identified as Andrew Eaves, a 39-year-old army training instructor who grew up in Mississippi. He served in the Bravo Company, 12th Aviation Battalion, and was stationed at Davison Army Airfield in Fort Belvoir, Virginia. 
“If you knew Andrew Eaves, animals or people you never run out of love,” his mother, Betty Eaves, wrote in a Facebook post. “The more he gave the more room he had for more loving.”
The military is withholding the name of the third soldier killed on the helicopter per the request of their family. 
Edward, Kaiyan and Joe Zhou
Edward Zhou’s death was confirmed by US Figure Skating. Aged 16, he was a member of the Skating Club of Northern Virginia, and was described by The Skating Lesson website as a beloved member of the Ashburn Ice House community.
The site said he “was tiny when he first learnt how to skate, but he was fearless and unafraid of trying anything new.
“It has been said that his coaches loved coaching him because he always smiled and laughed every time he fell. Edward was known for relentlessly cheering on the other skaters.”
The site said his parents, Kaiyan and Joe — “who were known for always being at the rink and travelling together everywhere” — also died on the plane.
Olivia Eve Ter, 12
Olivia was a promising young skater who was returning from the youth development camp. Her death was confirmed by Prince George’s County Parks and Recreation office.
“Olivia not only excelled in figure skating programmes but inspired others through her talent, determination and sportsmanship,” it said in a statement. “Her passion for the sport and positive influence on her peers and coaches will not be forgotten.”
Her coach, Maria Elena Pinto, told The Skating Lesson outlet that she had “a smile that lit up the room and a contagious giggle”. 
“The rink will never be the same. She was the sweetest child and a rare talent,” she added.
Her mother was also believed to be on the flight.
                   Franco Aparicio,                    
13, 
                   and Luciano Aparicio                   
Franco Aparicio was a 13-year-old skater from Virginia, and a funding appeal set up by the ice rinks where he trained called him “a gracious, disciplined and kind-hearted figure skater who pursued excellence in everything he did”.
His sister Isabella wrote on Instagram: “To the best brother ever, thank you for being you and for being my best friend. You don’t deserve this and you have the sweetest soul. I love you so much.”
He skated with the Washington Figure Skating Club, and they had singled him out as their “youth volunteer” this month, praising his generous spirit.
“Franco loves volunteering because its another way for him to stay connected with his skating community and meet new skaters for the first time,” they wrote on social media.
TN, a news source from Argentina, said that Franco was born in Chile. They reported that his father Luciano, originally from Argentina, also died in the crash.
Cory, Stephanie and Roger Haynos
Cory Haynos was returning from the competition with his parents, Stephanie and Roger. Stephanie served on the board of the Skating Club of Northern Virginia, while Roger helped his son with musical arrangements for his performances.
The family, from Fairfax, Virginia, leave behind Cory’s sister, Emily.
                   Angela Yang                   
Angela Yang’s death was confirmed by the wife of her coach, Alexandr Kirsanov. Kirsanov had accompanied Yang to the Kansas skating competition, and also died in the crash.
Angela was a member of the University of Delaware figure skating club, and was inspired to take to the ice after watching her brother and sister play ice hockey. She initially tried ice hockey but preferred dancing.
Yang and her partner, Sean Kay, won first place at a US ice dance competition in November.
The day before boarding the flight, she posted a series of photos on Instagram and wrote: “Had so so much fun at camp!!! I’m really gonna miss my friends and all the great coaches! I can’t wait for next year!”
Sean Kay
Angela Yang competed alongside Sean Kay, who was also a member of the university’s figure skating club.
Sean and his brother Skyler competed in Austin, Texas, at the Excel National Festival in 2023, and their mother, Julia Kay, said her sons loved making friends through skating.
“Their favourite part was meeting other boys who love the sport as much as they do,” she said in an article about the competition.
“The camp portion of the experience provided opportunities to skate, learn and make new friendships. Both boys have several friends from the Excel Program that they talk with on FaceTime.
“During our last dance competition in Utah, we met with one of the boys from Sean’s Excel event. It’s amazing to watch them as they support each other, encourage each other, wish good luck before competitions and congratulate each other on a great skate.”
Sean won the Excel Juvenile Plus Boys competition, and the University of Delaware said on Instagram: “We are so proUD!!!”
Donna Smojice, Peter, Everly and Alydia Livingston
Donna and Peter Livingston were devoted to the ice skating careers of their daughters Everly, 14, and Alydia, 11, posting photos of the girls’ competitions on their Facebook pages.
Everly and Alydia had their own Instagram account, ice_skating_sisters, where they shared their passion for skating with almost 20,000 followers. The account included one photo taken this week at the US Figure Skating Championships in Wichita.
It was filled with messages of condolences on Thursday, and The Tribune-Democrat newspaper in Pennsylvania — where Donna was originally from — confirmed the deaths with her brother, Mark Smojice. The family were well known in the community.
“Donna was a young and wonderful person,” said Robert Heffelfinger, a local businessman. “She and her husband, Peter, had two children who were amazing ice skaters.”
The family were based in Virginia, and were members of the Washington Figure Skating Club. A coach from the club, Inna Volyanskaya, was also confirmed dead.
                   Danasia Elder                   
One of two flight attendants on board the plane, Danasia Elder of Charlotte, North Carolina, leaves behind her husband and two children, Kayden and Dallas. Her brother-in-law, Brandon Payne, told the local news network WSOC-TV that she was “full of life”.
“She was a great wife, a great parent, a great friend,” he said. “She was very bright, very smart. She was an entrepreneur. This flight attendant thing was kind of like one of her dreams she wanted to do.”
                   Michael Stovall and Jesse Pitcher                   
Seven of the victims were friends returning home from a duck hunting trip. Two of them have been named as Michael Stovall and Jesse Pitcher. 
Shawna Slarb, a cousin of Stovall, told The New York Times: “It was a boys’ trip. They were there on a duck hunt.”
Mikey, as he was known, lived in Maryland and worked as a steamfitter. She said the 40-year-old was a passionate hunter, skier and outdoorsman who was devoted to his wife and son.
Some of the men had known each other since childhood, but Jesse Pitcher knew the men from working together, said his father, Jameson Pitcher.
He said Jesse, 30, was the owner of his own plumbing business and had been married to his wife, Kylie, for just over a year. The pair were building their own home.
“He was just getting started with life,” he said.

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
