




The Hawk: Saint Joseph's University
February 5, 2025 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINIONS; Pg. 1
Length: 357 words
Byline: Bianca Talarico '27
Body


In recent years, the conversation surrounding diversity, equity and inclusion has become increasingly important, especially in the context of our nation's workforce. DEI refers to the intentional effort to create environments where individuals, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation or background, are treated fairly with equal opportunities to succeed. However, the concept of DEI is more than diversity in numbers; it's about fostering an inclusive culture where everyone feels valued and empowered. 
Within the few days President Donald Trump has been in office for his second term, his administration signed three executive orders that eliminate DEI policies dating back to former President Lyndon Johnson's administration. The Trump administration stripped away policies many relied on to make the workforce an equal playing field. Removing any DEI requirements halts the progress that has been made toward creating more equitable and inclusive environments. 
The question we must ask ourselves now is: How does this impact the unity of our country? 
In a nation as diverse as the United States, unity does not mean uniformity. Unity means understanding, respecting and valuing the differences that make us stronger as a collective whole. DEI initiatives are vital in addressing systemic inequalities that persist in education, employment and healthcare. They also open doors to new perspectives, which helps foster innovation and productivity in industries across the board. 
When we actively work as a society to ensure that everyone has a seat at the table, we create an environment that values each individual's contributions. In contrast, removing and downplaying DEI sends a dangerous message that some voices are not worth hearing. It implies that some experiences are not valid and not everyone is deserving of equal opportunities. 
As we look ahead, it's clear that embracing DEI is not just a social imperative; it is key to the cohesion and strength of our nation. We must continue to fight for inclusive policies that help bridge divides, foster unity and build a future where every American has an equal chance to succeed.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
