




USA Today Online
February 2, 2025 9:02 AM EST


Copyright 2025 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 753 words
Byline: Rex Huppke, USA TODAY
Body


As Americans gather to  – the varmint-y-est of all holidays – those of us who haven’t been MAGA-brainwashed could care less about six more weeks of winter. We’re stuck in the nightmare of .
It’s like living the time loop  – we wake each morning as if we’re living the previous day over again, checking to see what madness the new president has unleashed or what .
Will we rise to learn he has used a national tragedy to , as he did this past week by trying to blame the tragic Washington, D.C., plane collision on diversity, equity and inclusion? 
Will we wake and see he launched ? Or, as he announced Friday, 
What nuttiness awaits us, courtesy of a complicit Republican Party that paved the way for this unfolding fiasco?
We are in a Groundhog Day-like doom loop with Donald Trump

Those of us who can still sift lies from facts and know an attack on America’s value and democratic system when we see one are stuck. It’s an every morning anguish, one I’m sure delights the huge swath of Trump supporters driven only by own-the-libs hostility.
Our groundhog is a  who occasionally peers out from his Mar-a-Lago palace of insecurity or the White House, only able to see himself. It’s a Trump-centric world, and we’re doomed to four more years of it.
How do we fight waking up every morning to see what Trump has done?
What do we do? In the "Groundhog Day" movie, Murray's character slowly realizes he’s a self-centered jerk and then escapes the time loop by learning to be a good, loving person.
I don’t see Trump undergoing that transformation, and I certainly don’t have plans to change myself to align with his absence of values. You probably don’t, either.
So I’ll ask again: What do we do?
Opinion: 
Maybe the answer is to pay attention but not be taken aback
Many quickly say, as they did during Trump’s first go-round in the White House, that we just need to ignore him. 
He’s a troll who feeds on attention. Don’t grant him what he wants.

That’s all true, but there’s a difference. Trump is not some random dude on the internet with white-nationalist views and a big mouth. He’s the president of the United States of America,  and a big mouth.
To  about what happens to our country and the world. I can’t do that.
Opinion: 
So my suggestion for fellow liberal folks and any American disgusted by our unfolding Trump-loop "Groundhog Day" is this: Stop being surprised.
Energy spent stressing about Trump can be directed elsewhere

For the foreseeable future, we will wake up each day and learn about  that we don’t like. Trump will say outlandish things because that’s his default setting, and he will do outlandish things. No morning should be more of a surprise than the next.
Pay attention. Watch it unfold. Protest where you can. Direct your energy toward  by this administration’s actions. Declare loudly and often who’s to blame. Connect the dots, over and over again, for people who stubbornly refuse to engage in dot-connecting.
Opinion alerts: Get columns from your favorite columnists + expert analysis on top issues, delivered straight to your device through the USA TODAY app. Don't have the app? .
The only way we get out of this "Groundhog Day" loop is if the damage Trump does is felt by the people who support him most, from voters to the lawmakers who kiss his loafers.
We’re going to feel that knot in our stomachs every morning, just like last time. The only thing that might relieve it a bit is not acting shocked when it hits.
Follow USA TODAY columnist Rex Huppke on Bluesky at  and on Facebook at 
You can read diverse opinions from our  and other writers on the , on X, formerly Twitter,  and in our .
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: February 3, 2025


End of Document
