




MailOnline
February 17, 2025 Monday 1:44 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 666 words
Byline: Germania Rodriguez Poleo, Chief U.S. Reporter
Body


George Washington could be removed from the flag of the state that bears his name, with local Democrats accused of a woke plot to erase him from history. 
                     Washington state lawmakers want to redesign their current emblem from 1923 that sees the United States' first president's face sit in the center of a green background.
Progressive Dem politicians Strom Peterson, Julia Reed and Greg Nance introduced House Bill 1938 to the state legislature.
They want the existing flag to be ditched for a more 'representative' design they feel would better reflect the Evergreen State's character and history. 
And blogger Emmett O'Connell, who'll address lawmakers before a vote on the decision, wrote that the existing flag is 'deeply and historically bad.' 
In a post on OlympiaTime, O'Connell wrote: 'We all know that symbols matter. Without much prompting, we can all think of negative controversies about symbols.
'If symbols didn't matter, we wouldn't worry about racists in Ohio waving Nazi flags on overpasses? 
'No one would fly a Trump flag from their truck while honking annoyingly through downtown Olympia (This happens more often than you'd think) if symbols didn't matter.'
He added: 'Let's seize this moment to create a flag that reflects the beauty, diversity, and spirit of Washington. After all, symbols matter, and so do we.'
But some of O'Connell's readers took aim at calls for a new flag and claimed they were politically-motivated. 
'Spend your time while there in Olympia resolving the issue of gangs and the exploding crime problem amongst the young,' commenter Bruce Heyduck wrote.
Another called Robert added: 'If this flag doesn't represent your own idea of good looking then go ahead and get out of Washington! 
'You crazy people don't care about what the citizens of Washington think! We want law enforcement, bad people in jail/prison.'
'What drivel, uninspired, unoriginal, politically spun nonsense,' a third commenter wrote: 'There is no flag that these virtue signallers could make that would be better.'
And a fourth commenter called Curtis M said: 'What's the matter with the flag not enough color, maybe a rainbow in the background , drag queens to represent the state's standing on DEI and LGTBQ+'
George Washington has become a villain to some progressives in recent years because he owned slaves. 
Earlier in 2024, Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson announced plans to remove a statue of Washington from his city hall, before backpedaling.
And while the Washington plot to remove the Founding Father from the flag has not explicitly attacked him, it calls for a new symbol that 'accurately reflects' the Evergreen State's 'diverse communities.' 
The final flag design would have to be ready by July, 1, 2028. It would then be voted on in a statewide referendum. 
'While the name honors a national figure, its origins reflect a moment when the voices of the people living in the region were overlooked,' O'Connell wrote.
'You could almost say we're fiercely ambivalent about the name and symbolism of our state,' he added.
'Because they were largely chosen by outsiders, we don't focus on how our symbols could actually be important to us.'
Bill 1938 will have a first hearing on Tuesday before the House State Government and Tribal Relations Committee.
A final committee vote is scheduled for Friday. 
The lawmakers who wish to redesign the flag have yet to share images of any proposed replacements. 
Other states like Mississippi and Utah have also recently moved to change their state flags. 
Last year, Minnesota unfurled its new state flag and accompanying state seal, which were adopted to replace an old design that Native Americans said reminded them of painful memories of conquest and displacement.
The new symbols eliminated an old state seal that featured the image of a Native American riding off into the sunset while a white settler plows his field with a rifle at the ready. 
The seal was a key feature of the old flag. That's why there was pressure to change both. 

Load-Date: February 17, 2025


End of Document
