



Fox News THE FIVE 5:00 PM EST
January 22, 2025 Wednesday


Copyright 2025 Fox News Network LLC All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; Domestic
Length: 6773 words
Byline: Judge Jeanine Pirro, Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino, Greg Gutfeld
Body


WILL CAIN, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: We'll find out. By the way, we'll find out.
STEPHEN A SMITH, ESPN HOST: We'll find out.
CAIN: Because people can find you on the Stephen A Smith show -- on the Stephen A. Smith show. Thank you so much. Stephen A.
All right, thanks for joining us as we get to the heart of matter from the heart of America. We'll be right back here again tomorrow on "THE WILL CAIN SHOW."
JEANINE PIRRO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL LEGAL ANALYST: Hello, everyone. I'm Judge Jeanine Pirro along with Harold Ford Jr., Jesse Watters, Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld. It's 5:00 in New York City, and this is THE FIVE.
It's 5:00 p.m. and President Trump's DEI deadline has just passed and woken federal bureaucrats are fleeing their offices. Much more on that later.
But first to the bishop who turned her lectern into a sermon on wokeness, Mariann Budde hijacking the sacred prayer service at the National Cathedral with President Trump and J.D. Vance in attendance, thinking it was the perfect place to preach her progressive gospel.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REV. MARIANN EDGAR BUDDE, BISHOP OF WASHINGTON: There are gay, lesbian and transgender children in Democratic, Republican and Independent families, some who fear for their lives.
And the people, the people who pick our crops and clean our office buildings, who labor in poultry farms and meat packing plants, who wash the dishes after we eat in restaurants and work the night shifts in hospitals, they may not be citizens or have the proper documentation, but the vast majority of immigrants are not criminals.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: But what this woke Bishop didn't count on is that President Trump is one heck of a counter-puncher. 47 going scorch Earth on the nasty clergy woman calling her service boring and uninspiring and adding that she and the church owed the public an apology.
And no surprise here, the woke Bishop is capitalizing on her newfound fame, making all the stops to liberal outlets like CNN. And then, worshiping with the five disciples of "The View"
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
BUDDE: Unity requires a certain degree of mercy, mercy and compassion and understanding. We need to be merciful and to -- I was trying to counter the narrative that is so divisive and polarizing, and in which people, real people, are being -- are being harmed. How could it not be politicized, right? We're in a hyper-political climate.
I was trying to speak the truth that I felt needed to be said, but to do it in as respectful and kind a way as I could.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PIRRO: All right, Jesse, he's not even 24 hours into his presidency, and it's such an opportunity. I mean, there they are at the National Cathedral, and everything was very unified. You know, it was when you saw the luncheon and you saw people in Congress. I mean, it was a unity event, and it was stained by this bishop.
JESSE WATTERS, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: It's like the one time Trump goes to church, the one time and he gets lectured. That's why he plays golf on Sunday, because if he wanted to get lectured by a skinny liberal woman, he just watched Maddow.
He is a Presbyterian. You take a big risk when you go into an Episcopalian service. Let this be a lesson to you.
Pastor Jeffress said something very poignant. She insulted rather than encourage the president. She said that trans and illegals are scared. Well, what about Laken Riley? She was scared. What about Riley Gaines? She was scared. I don't think this bishop ever talked about those two women. I wouldn't know, because I'm not in her service though.
Christianity is a rules-based religion, as are most religions. They have the 10 Commandments, don't do this, don't do that. So, when you apply to become a citizen of another country, you wait in line.
What if someone went to Communion at this Bishop's service, cut the whole line, guzzled the blood of Christ, stole the body of Christ, and then slapped her in the face. Would she have mercy on that person? No, you don't run a confessional like you run a country. She's -- what she's doing is she's exploiting mercy in order to judge Donald Trump.
You can be merciful, but that doesn't mean you just give blanket amnesty to everybody. And we don't want to have compassion at the expense of civilization, because this woman's compassion wreaks havoc on our borders, our sovereignty, our bathrooms, our privacy. She's lucky this didn't happen on day one, when he was a dictator, because he would have put her in prison.
PIRRO: You know, Dana, it's the left that's always talking about, you know, the separation of church and state. There's no separation there.
DANA PERINO, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Years and years ago, when I worked on Capitol Hill, I went to a church on Capitol Hill, I loved it, and I loved my singles group. We used to meet every Wednesday, on Thursdays we would do the volunteer. We loved it.
And over time, it was pretty clear that the politics were taking over, and I stopped going and part of the reason was this, I like being reminded about mercy and redemption and grace and not judging others. Those are all things that you could have said, but I think what the country just voted on was to say, we want less politics in our everyday lives.
You have a serious dearth of people going to church in the United States. Lot of people would have tuned in yesterday. That was a way to be persuasive, like, here's a good place to come and to feel good about yourself, to meet other people that be in fellowship with your fellow citizens. And instead, I think people were like, wow, you've just push politics simply because you've been given the floor and you were completely unpersuasive.
PIRRO: You know, Harold, she's suggesting that, you know, lesbian, gays, children, their lives are in danger. She's making this stuff up. How long are they going to continue to lie about this stuff?
HAROLD FORD JR., FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: You say they, being (ph)?
PIRRO: The left. I mean, you know, Rachel Maddow is going to be thrown off MSNBC, and "The View" is going to be thrown off air, and people are going to die. How long are they going to continue with this nonsense that no one believes?
FORD JR.: It's good to be back around this table. I think that -- I think - - I think we all have to. I didn't -- I didn't interpret her remarks. I go to church a lot, and I listen to prayers that sometimes inspire me, rattle me, inform me, and sometimes upbraid me, because I think pastors come from a tradition of study and discipleship and teaching and leadership.
Remember, Jesus in the Bible was always sought the company of sinners and those ostracized and those marginalized, even to the chagrin of Pharisees and the high priest in the church. So this pastor, she comes from that, and I just find it in my life that it's good not to quarrel with a pastor, regardless of his or her faith, even if you think the pastor might be talking to you and saying something that, again, rattles you or makes you a little upset.
I re-watch what she said, Judge, and I get everybody can take their -- they have their opinion on this and interpret the way they want. I just heard her saying that from her own tradition of study and her own tradition of her of discipleship and her denomination, that she would hope that politicians would act with compassion and mercy.
We can disagree with it but I just -- I just hope -- I just, I don't think it's a good look to be fighting with a bishop. That's just me.
PIRRO: You know what? First of all, she asked for it. She's fighting with the president of the United States. She is judging him. She feels empowered. He's in office less than 24 hours, when the country wants unity, she's pulling up the leftist progressive talking points. It's not about her in her role as a bishop. It's about her. I don't care what she is. It's about her in her role as a politician, using the church and the pulpit of the church to engage in political discussion. Am I wrong, Greg?
GREG GUTFELD, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: I would never say you're wrong, Judge.
PIRRO: Thank you.
GUTFELD: I agree. I think what Harold is speaking about has been the problem for our culture for a long time, which is how spiritual -- the spiritual realm is being exploited, gamed by people who use it to block themselves from criticism. So, she uses her spiritual authority to block criticism because she's a bishop. Don't argue with a bishop. She's a bishop and oh, you know, it comes from a long history of this.
She's not defending sinners or the poor. She's not like Jesus. She's talking about behaviors, and she's cloaking these behaviors under the false guise of compassion.
I mean, she's lecturing a guy who got shot about being in danger. Who is she implying that is putting these people in danger? Are there guys in MAGA hats that are mutilating healthy children removing their genitals? No, that's her team. That's the people she's defending. Does she have any evidence that children are in danger by this new administration, the administration that is trying to rescue missing kids through this border fiasco?
You know, she may have a congregation, but she has no class. She saw an opportunity to feed her ego. She knew this was going to happen, and she rushed to the trough.
On the bright side, I have to say, she didn't call him Hitler, which is good, but who knew Satan wore granny glasses and stole his haircut from John Denver. Just because you're spiritual, Harold, and you are, doesn't make you smart, holy or even good. We somehow ascribe those qualities like that, and imposters are here to exploit it.
You know, Satan isn't going to show up in red tights holding a pitch fork. He's going to show up like that. She's an imposter. She exploits compassion for terrible, terrible beliefs. There is no compassion in saying that trans kids are in danger. They're in danger by the trans ideology.
And when you're talking about immigrants being in danger. Is she not aware that legal immigrants overwhelmingly favor a strong border because they like rules, they like the fact that you cannot cheat, you have to stand in line.
I love also how she appreciates the immigrants for all the dishes they wash. She is like -- she's the hood ornament for imposter, imposter morality. And she rep -- she throws her weight, the church, to defend horrible things. So, there you go, Harold.
FORD JR.: Can I just say, Reverend Graham (ph), I thought gave one of the great invocations of President Trump's inaugural. He started off by saying, Mr. President, the last four years, there are times I'm sure you thought it was pretty dark, but look what God has done. We praise him and give him glory.
Some people interpret that to mean that he thought that Jesus wanted President Trump. I just thought it was him -- no, Judge, (INAUDIBLE) I just think it is a -- I just think you just -- you know, you don't fight with pastors. That's my own thing.
GUTFELD: That's not a pastor, that is Satan, Harold. It's Satan.
PIRRO: Fox News alert, OK, you find this important. The House has just passed the Laken Riley Act that requires detaining illegal immigrants accused of crimes. This is the version of the bill that passed the Senate on Monday, it will now go to President Trump's desk for his signature. Maybe the bishop ought to be more concerned about that.
But coming up, woke bureaucrats, you're fired. The deadline has just passed on Trump's DEI executive order.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PERINO: How many times we're going to say this, Greg? DEI is DOA, that is dead on arrival. The 5:00 p.m. deadline has passed on President Trump's order for all federal government agencies to shutter their diversity, equity and inclusion offices, and that's a lot of potential layoffs for a workforce that has over two million people.
The goal is restoring the importance of individual merit and ending the, "Forced illegal and immoral discrimination." Some folks in the media do not see it that way, accusing the president of being a DEI hire.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SUNNY HOSTIN, ABC NEWS HOST: And thinking about that, and Donald Trump saying things that this country would be a meritocracy, you're talking about a man who didn't become the president of the United States because of merit. He was given everything that he has. He is a legacy hire. He is, if anything, a DEI hire. Didn't earn it hire. And so, you know, that's -- those are just some of the things that I was thinking.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: But it's not just the feds, corporations have also been rolling back DEI programs. It's got the Reverend Al Sharpton threatening to boycott.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REV. AL SHARPTON, HOST, MSNBC: These companies that are now saying they're going to back up off of Diversity and Equity and Inclusion should therefore not have a diverse consumer base. You don't want diversity, then we should not buy your products. We're going to make the example of Dr. King is withdraw dollars. Donald Trump can't make us spend money for companies that will not deal and commit and continue with diversity and equity and inclusion.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: If Sharpton actually went through with that, he wouldn't have anything to buy.
GUTFELD: Yes, you know that companies love this because it's not their decision to make anymore. I'm not racist. It's like I'm off the hook. It's like, you know, dad said, I can't drive you to work because it's too dangerous. Don't have to do it. So it's great. It's off their table.
Proponents of DEI will say that the critics are anti-diversity. No, we actually think diversity is a positive, as long as it doesn't come before competence or merit. You know, you hire for merit and competence.
If you do the reverse, I mean, you hope, when you hire for a competence, that diversity is reflected over time in that. But if you do the reverse, you hire for diversity and hope for competence, you're going to get broken planes, corrupt mayors and obviously "The View" with Sunny Hostin.
But there's another thing about the DEI, the forgotten victims, and I don't mean the people who didn't get the job because they weren't the right skin color, but the people who got the jobs. They're always going to be viewed with suspicion that they were -- they're examples of preferential treatment, we talked about that.
But there's also another thing, and I've seen this happen everywhere. You could be a great hire in the future, but if you're not ready for the job, when they put you in there, you will collapse, and you will lose that opportunity.
If you give somebody too much too soon, the person will always fail, always fail. Do you think, you know, in 2007 they were going to put me on a show like this, it would have been a disaster. So they put me on at 3:00 a.m. and I toiled away for seven years, and now I am a superstar. I can't even walk outside anymore. It's ridiculous, but sometimes you got to climb before you can shine.
And there are a lot of people whose careers got screwed up by being pushed up too soon. Isn't that a nice comment, Jesse?
WATTERS: It's true, I was groomed from a very early age at this company. I wasn't even --
PERINO: Care to rephrase?
WATTERS: I was never put in a position where I would just fall flat on my face. You're right, you're always brought up carefully and methodically.
I did a lot of research for this segment, Dana.
PERINO: Can't wait.
WATTERS: Racial research. I don't know why I got so excited about that.
60 percent of the federal workforce is white. Guess what the percentage of white Americans are? 60 percent. Accurately reflects the demographics of the country.
What is the percentage of Black Americans in the federal government? 18 percent. What's the percentage in the population? 14 percent.
So, the Back Americans are actually overrepresented in the federal government, and white Americans equally represented as a proportion to the population.
So, why do we need more inclusion? Why do we need more diversity? In fact, we've been incredibly inclusive. No one's really overrepresented in white America. People are actually overrepresented in Black America.
And I would argue, Dana, without any evidence at all, the trans people are overrepresented in the federal government, just based off the pictures I've seen on television of some of these people.
DEI is so toxic that we are literally funding hatred. We are funding -- this is taxpayer-funded hate. And international communism spent decades trying to poison this country and DEI has done more damage than international communism has in just four years.
Other reasons to hate DEI, they empower human resources, everybody hates H.R. They also -- it also basically is a jobs program for lawyers. The judge knows how I feel about lawyers, and it destroys the American work ethic, because if everybody's a victim, they expect things to be given to them, and it kills their ambition.
And Dana, if we're going to have a new golden age, we need as much ambition as possible.
PERINO: There is a brilliant lawyer that's been working on this, Judge. Her name is May Mailman, and she's been working even on these things outside. So, it's -- when they're writing these executive orders, it's not like just throwing spaghetti against the wall and hoping to fix. They know what they're doing to see if it -- they know what they're doing in order for it to be effective.
But if all these people are going to walk off the job anyway, then OK.
PIRRO: Well, first of all, I mean, the whole point of DEI is really contrary to the opinion of the Supreme Court. When we saw the Supreme Court say no more affirmative action, what was it, admissions or students for fair admissions in Harvard, either it was North Carolina. Not sure what the other school was, they ended affirmative action in higher education.
OK, so we've got that going on with the Supreme Court saying no more of this. Everybody's the same. You go in, you don't get a benefit because of the color of your skin. You compete based upon merit.
But DEI has been nothing more than a waste of money, because what you end up with are, you know, you hire unqualified people, example, Los Angeles Fire Department, where this DEI hire says, hey, I think she's a (INAUDIBLE) I don't know what she is, but she says, if you're a guy and I can't carry you, well, you're just in the wrong place.
I mean, talk about insensitivity and the inability to do the job.
And as it relates to Al Sharpton, let me just say this. This guy is a voice in the wilderness. He thinks he's going to boycott Amazon, McDonald's, especially McDonald's, Walmart, Boeing, Molson, Lowe's, Ford Motor Company, Jack Daniels, Harley Davidson, it isn't going to work.
And Al, and then finally, Sunny Hostin, and this one makes me crazy. Donald Trump is a legacy hire. Are you kidding me? Donald Trump's a legacy hire? What the hell is the woman that you supported? Kamala Harris, not only is a legacy hire, no one even voted for her.
PERINO: And also, I was thinking all of those things, and that DEI was like a tapeworm in the government. Harold, it like started, and then it got bigger and bigger and bigger, and then people were dependent on it, and it's killing you. Tapeworm.
FORD JR.: So, I have a slightly different opinion. I agree with everyone, I believe that competence and being qualified and being capable have to always be the forefront in the guiding principles for anybody hired for anything. I think sometimes the opponents of affirmative action or DEI, sometimes, I think either intentionally or unintentionally or inadvertently, seem to suggest that there are people who are being promoted or given an opportunity when they are -- they don't have the ability or the qualifications for the job. I'm sure that happens in some instances.
And then I think some people who are opponents of DEI begin to extrapolate that women and Blacks and Hispanics and whomever might not should have had that job and we might not should look at those people for jobs because there's a presumption they're not qualified.
Now, we never say that about white guys who get fired, which is a good thing. When Mr. President Trump fired Rex Tillerson, he brought a white guy on to succeed him. I think he brought on Mike Pompeo. When he fired John Bolton, he brought on Robert O'Brien. All I'm saying is this was a good thing, you look for qualifications.
Now, people who get hired, who are not qualified, we should call them out regardless of their race. We should call them out regardless of their gender.
But I think sometimes, I think people have kind of over-corrected in some of their language around this, and that's the only thing that concerns me about all of this.
I mean, celebrating the end of this is a good thing in some ways. I just hope that we're looking at this in the most favorable light. Because what I -- what I'd hate to do is for us not to realize that before you had DEI and affirmative action, we were not a merit-based society.
I mean, Blacks and women were discriminated against because the fact they were Blacks and women and Hispanic.
PIRRO: You mean before DEI?
FORD JR.: Before affirmative action, DEI is three or four-year-old program.
PIRRO: Yes, I know that.
FORD JR.: But I said affirmative action.
PIRRO: When did affirmative action start?
FORD JR.: So the Bakke decision is what gave it to us.
PIRRO: What year is that?
FORD JR.: I think it was in the mid '60s, Judge, maybe late '60s.
So, before that, remember, the country didn't have a great history of these things. My only point is --
GUTFELD: It was outlawed. Discrimination was outlawed.
PIRRO: Yes.
FORD JR.: Discrimination was actually codified for doing the Jim Crow. My only point is this, we shouldn't assume that because someone is Black or a woman or Hispanic and earn a job --
PIRRO: Nobody is assuming that.
FORD JR.: I didn't say it, but some people do. There's some people out there.
WATTERS: Greg made the point. It creates suspicion when people fail and they wonder, why was this person hired? We know why you were hired, Harold, it's not because you're Black, it's because you're handsome.
PIRRO: And smart and well dressed.
GUTFELD: You have handsome privilege, Harold.
FORD JR.: My only point is, I just hope and pray that we give -- we continue to give people opportunity, continue to give people chances, even when someone that looks like them failed.
The only model I would say we have is we should do exactly rightly so what we do for white guys in this country when they fail, we hire another white guy. And we say he's probably going to do a good job.
GUTFELD: None of us here voted for Gavin Newsom, and he's the biggest white male failure in history, aside from Joe Biden.
FORD JR.: Who won the presidency?
GUTFELD: Well, Trump, but he beat another -- he beat Joe Biden, another incompetent white guy. So, we get rid of that white guy.
FORD JR.: This is all -- this is the only thing --
PIRRO: Merit, that's the final word. Merit. That's it.
PERINO: All right, guys.
FORD JR.: People got to be given an opportunity in terms of merit.
GUTFELD: Remember Merit in cigarette?
PIRRO: Yes, I do.
GUTFELD: What a weird name for cigarettes, Merit.
PERINO: And tonight at 9:00, Sean Hannity has a big exclusive interview with President Donald Trump. Here's a preview.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SEAN HANNITY, FOX NEWS CHANNEL HOST: Joe Biden ran and said he would never do preemptive pardons. It was an issue that came up when you were leaving your first time.
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Sure. He thought he heard that I was going to do, I didn't want to do it. I was given the option. They said, sir, would you like to pardon everybody, including yourself? I said, I'm not going to pardon anybody. We didn't do anything wrong.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
PERINO: Coming up, Trump is putting sanctuary cities on notice as ICE begins arresting illegal immigrants.
GUTFELD: Good for you.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GUTFELD: Oh, am I on? Thanks, guys.
WATTERS: Were you just dancing to the Friends' theme song.
PIRRO: Yes.
GUTFELD: 47 quickly restoring order to the border. President Trump's shock and awe ICE raids have begun with immigration officers arresting 308 illegal criminals on his first day in office, including an attempted murderer and a child molester. And there's more to come. Tom Homan warning every illegal is fair game for deportation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
LAWRENCE JONES, FOX NEWS CHANNEL CONTRIBUTOR: What would a person have to do to get a visit from ICE?
TOM HOMAN, BORDER CZAR: For being in the country illegally. Right now, as we said repeatedly and the President Trump has been clear, we're concentrating on the worst first, the public safety threats, the national security threats. And just yesterday, in the last 24 hours, ICE arrested over 308 serious criminals. So, ICE is doing their job and they're prioritizing just as the President said they would. So, ICE is performing excellent right now out in the field. And they're going to continue every day.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GUTFELD: Harold, the worst first.
FORD JR.: I like that.
GUTFELD: You like it, don't you?
FORD JR.: I do. I do.
GUTFELD: You're almost a Republican. Come on over. The water is warm, and I'll make it warmer.
PERINO: Oh, gross.
FORD JR.: I think that -- you know, I listened to Mr. Homan during the transition period and I agreed with a lot of the spirit. I didn't always agree with some of the histrionics, but I like this worst -- the worst first. I think that they consider schools and churches. I know there's some people who are objecting to that. I'm one of them. I hope they don't -- I hope they -- that is not part of the strategy.
But I totally agree that those elected officials who try to stop them or prevent them or obstruct them from the worst first strategy, I think they should -- the law speaks to what they're able to do to them. But I don't like the idea -- I want to be clear -- I don't like the idea of schools and churches going in and taking people. Wait for -- wait for them to come out. Go with the worst the first strategy first.
GUTFELD: That's for those who just hang out around schools and churches.
PIRRO: Yes, like sanctuary.
GUTFELD: Geez, Louise, Harold, what is wrong with you? You know, Dana, isn't it kind of interesting that it's Homan who's sending them home?
PIRRO: Home.
PERINO: Gosh, it really is poetic. What is happening here? Look, if you're one of the small minority of people who believes that these deportations are wrong, there's somebody that you can blame, and that's Joe Biden. Terrible policy failures led to a moment where you have a situation that the people of this country voted to say we have had enough.
I think it's super interesting also that there are some people who think that even if you have a deportation order, you shouldn't be sent home.
PIRRO: Right.
PERINO: But that's against the law.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PERINO: If they are ordered to go and you don't them, then you are actually breaking the law at that point.
GUTFELD: This is interesting, Judge, because I always find it hilarious that sanctuary cities exist. Like, in America where everybody obeys the law, there are exception pockets, and they're for people who aren't Americans. Like, there's no sanctuary cities for me, and I don't want to pay taxes. Can we have a sanctuary city for people who don't pay taxes? No.
PIRRO: Exactly. I think that we should sue for equal protection.
GUTFELD: Yes.
PIRRO: That Americans when they commit crimes, they should be able to be protected, OK? Not really. OK. Now, let's talk about this Governor Pritzker. He vows to protect illegals in his state from ICE. Now, the problem with that is he is protecting illegals in American cities where when ICE goes in, there is going to be a problem identifying them and putting Americans and police in jeopardy when they try to arrest them. Not to mention that many of them are -- some them -- what percentage -- are criminals already and have evaded any kind of sentence and arrest or arrest and prosecution.
But this is obstruction. It is violation of the federal law. It is violation of Article 2 of the Constitution. The Supremacy Clause requires that state and local enforcement comply with the executive branch immigration enforcement. Federal law prohibits state and local acts from resisting obstruction and failing to comply with lawful immigration commands.
So, let's be real clear about this. The fact that Joe Biden didn't think it was a crime, this guy was in La La Land the whole time. This stuff is a crime. And if we get to the point where we have to arrest governors and other officials because they prevent law enforcement from working with ICE, it's time to do take a side. Are you're with the Americans or are you with illegals who need to be deported, the worst 1.4 million already have deportation orders.
And my last -- my last thought is this. 90 percent of those released into the interior failed to show up for asylum hearing. So, don't give me this nonsense that they need asylum. We release them and they don't even show up. And those who do in one year, 54,000 were granted asylum out of millions who got that temporary asylum. Stop kidding yourselves.
GUTFELD: You know, Jesse, imagine that I'm a police officer -- and not the kind you see it strip clubs, but -- and I am arresting you. I'm going to arrest you because you broke the law. If I were a Liberal, I would stop by our house and take your kids as well to jail because I don't want to separate you from your family. How soon before we hear the family separation hysteria that oh, my -- so they expect you to arrest the whole family together. Why -- you know, we would think that's barbaric if it were American citizens.
WATTERS: If they want to send everybody home to Guatemala, they can. They can get on the plan or they can stay here without their papa. I strongly disagree with handsome Harold here. If there is an international sex trafficker in this country illegally but he's hanging out by a school, Biden said you can't pick him up.
FORD JR.: No, I meant -- I meant kids. I meant kids, Jesse. I hear -- I hear -- I don't -- I didn't say that. I mean kids.
PIRRO: No, Harold didn't say that.
GUTFELD: Why are you defending pedophiles, Harold?
PIRRO: No, he didn't.
WATTERS: Here's another carve out they have in Biden's era. If you're worshiping, they can't pick you up. So, you could be doing a Satanic ritual --
GUTFELD: Oh, Jesse.
WATTERS: You could be slitting a goat's throat and guzzling its blood in the middle of nowhere and ICE can't grab you. How about this?
PIRRO: You watch Vikings?
WATTERS: When there's disaster or an emergency response, ICE can't arrest a criminal migrant. So, in LA County, everyone is untouchable. How about this? A wedding. So, if you find El Chapo going to his brother's wedding, you can't pull him out of the service.
Lastly, a parade demonstration or rally. That means if there was a criminal alien at January 6th, Biden couldn't arrest him. That's how stupid it is.
GUTFELD: And Trump couldn't pardon them.
WATTERS: And Trump couldn't pardon them.
PIRRO: All right.
GUTFELD: All right. Well, we learn nothing. Up next, Democrats admit they suck.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
WATTERS: Kamala Harris is back in her hometown of L.A. and doing what she does best, getting rejected by the people. Her neighbors are reportedly furious that her Secret Service detail is causing traffic jams. Meanwhile, the party she grifted billions out of, the Obama pod bros, are putting Democrats on blast for not knowing how to talk to people. Listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON LOVETT, CO-HOST, POD SAVE AMERICA: Democrats have spent years saying you're wrong not to care about this. You're wrong not to be bothered by these assaults on our democracy, these -- you're wrong not to care about this stuff. And I think if -- at a time when there's so much noise, we have to go to people and talk about what they already care about.
JON FAVREAU, CO-HOST, POD SAVE AMERICA: They think what's going to happen is they're going to go on Joe Rogan and then Joe Rogan's going to say something about trans issues. And they're going to say trans issues, that's just a distraction from high prices, and have you heard about what we did with Medicare? And Joe Rogan is going to be like, what? Because like they talk like a message document, and they talk like their pollster told them to talk.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WATTERS: And programming alert, I'll have one of the podcast bros on the show tonight at 8:00. I'm not sure which one.
Dana, how do you interpret what they're selling now?
PERINO: Well, I think that they're at least the ones who are trying to figure it out and be honest about it. And they have a platform to do it. That's a very popular program and they for a super popular president. And they -- even when -- after the Biden debate, the disastrous debate on June 27th, they were some of the first to say wow, OK, we got a problem and this has to change.
I don't know if they were for an open primary or if they were just all in on Kamala. You might ask that tonight. That might be a good question for you to ask them. Not to give you an assignment, but I would like to know. Some of the Democrats like on the on the Biden influencer page, today they were complaining that Donald Trump had been in office for six hours and grocery price were high. I just -- I couldn't believe it.
And there are problems that the Democrats have. I know things always swing back, right? It's a pendulum. You see it. It is very hard to imagine right now the Democrats finding their footing. I assume they will at some point, but someone is going to have to step up.
WATTERS: Well, I can't buy eggs in New Jersey, the ones I like, Judge Jeanine, you know, the organic pasture-raised ones because I'm an elitist. And I'm going to hold Trump's feet to the fire if he can't get my eggs.
PIRRO: He'll be really worried about that, Jesse.
WATTERS: He should be. I have a very powerful megaphone.
PIRRO: Yes, you do, Jesse.
WATTERS: Egg gate. I've already come up with a name.
PIRRO: Yes. You know, those megaphones don't always work. Talk to the bishop.
WATTERS: I'm no bishop, Judge.
PIRRO: All right, listen.
GUTFELD: You can't beat the bishop.
PIRRO: My son brings me eggs from his chickens. First of all, these guys are right. The reason these guys on this Pod Save America or whatever it's called, they got no in the game, OK. They can say what that -- they're being honest. And they're basically saying, you know, you're wrong not to care about the problem. We -- you know, we are in a position to, you know, identify what Americans care about. But I'll leave that to you for the show tonight.
But what I love about this is the Democrats are now saying the Republicans are all focused on the billionaires and the oligarchs and all that other nonsense. Well, you want to tell me what happened in Silicon Valley and Big Tech and Hollywood when they got Biden to do their bidding, and with the 51 Intel agents sent to shut down Free Speech with Hunter Biden's laptop.
And now, we got Elon Musk who's willing, you know, to bring back people from outer space. The Boeing left up there because they're like incompetent on this stuff. I'm sure they're not incompetent but they are to me. And FEMA, you know, couldn't get Starlink or anything else to the people in North Carolina, and now they just hate them. The Dems just hate. They make no sense.
WATTERS: Would you like to counter that, Harold Ford Jr.?
FORD JR.: No, I think you raised -- you raised a good point about the grocery prices and insurance costs and housing costs. I think -- I've said for a long time, and I'm glad to hear the -- that the guys -- the podcast brothers or the Obama pod brothers, however you describe them, I've said since the election, even before the election, Democrats, we are out of sync with where a lot of the country is. I don't think it'll be as hard to get back in sync, but two things you have to do.
You have to listen to people and then you have to answer people, and that's for everybody. President Trump listened and he developed a campaign message that spoke to people's concerns and needs and aspirations and fears. And the question now is once you're elected -- I think all people who win presidential races do that. Once you win, you now have to answer that.
Look, ending DEI today is something that we that a lot of people are going to celebrate. I don't think it has any impact on the price of eggs or cars or groceries. And I think ultimately, that's where -- that's the rub in this election. And I think President Trump has a theory of the case which is he wants his tax cuts extended, he wants tariffs on certain things to make more things are produced here in manufacturing here in America, and he believes that that that, you know, that DOGE is going to help him reform government in many ways.
If that works, there'd be a lot of people support him again. But ultimately, he's got to deliver on the economic message. And if he does, he'll win again. And if Democrats don't take to this and understand this, we're going to continue losing.
WATTERS: Greg, do you think the podcast bros are actually brothers?
GUTFELD: No. I don't -- I got to be -- I don't care about those tools. Everything they said I heard already five years ago on this show. We told you that the Democratic Party was becoming a joyless emasculated bunch of chaotic Karens. We predicted what was going to happen to your party two years ago. I don't need some weasel to come tell me what's happening when they were behind it to be with.
Look, you cannot be scared and have a conversation. The Democrats are always, let's have a conversation. Nobody wants to talk to them because there's always, always a chance for potential condemnation if you speak your mind. If you move your hand any which way, oh, you could be Hitler. So, nobody wants to be around you because you make behavior a potential for cancellation. And then ultimately you turn on yourself.
So, it's not Whites or Blacks or Hispanics that are leaving your party, pal, it's the fun people. People want to have fun. Identity politics does not make your life fun. It's invaded all of our lives. Think about it. The Democrats have lost the ability to talk to other humans because they introduced identity politics, the elevation of yourself, into every element of life.
So, if you're in line at Starbucks and you're getting a coffee, that's not -- that's your transaction self. But now, you're supposed to say hi, I'm Steve. I'm non-binary. Nobody wants to hear that crap.
WATTERS: We got to go. Greg told it. Here it is. Liberal parents are freaking out over there MAGA sons.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
FORD JR.: Greg Gutfeld, you've got some breaking news.
GUTFELD: I got -- I just got this email from Julie Sacko. Thank you, Julie. Dear, Mr. Gutfeld, please stop using In You Face Harold. It is very disrespectful and mean. Mr. Ford is a kind, intelligent, and good-mannered man, and you appear to be jealous of him.
Yes. I don't look like him. Oh, wait, she says I'm funny and bright, but you seem small when you target co-workers with your snide remarks and cruel jokes. I'm sure Jesse, Brian, and others would appreciate you are not targeting them.
PERINO: Hey, what about me?
GUTFELD: Yes, what about Dana?
PERINO: Geez.
GUTFELD: Wow. Sexist much.
WATTERS: So, now we've taken over --
PIRRO: So, that's it?
WATTERS: -- producing the show.
PIRRO: Yes. So, we're not doing E block.
GUTFELD: This was a great -- this topic that we --
PERINO: We're going to save this for tomorrow.
PIRRO: Yes. We're going to save this for tomorrow.
WATTERS: We had to listen to the producers.
FORD JR.: It's actually a really, really --
PIRRO: I agree.
FORD JR.: It's a great topic but right now, "ONE MORE THING" is up next.
PIRRO: Good job.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
PIRRO: It's time now for "ONE MORE THING." Greg, hit it.
GUTFELD: What a show we have tonight. The very sexy Trace Gallagher is joining us, Jamie Lissow, Kat Timpf, Tyrus.
Let's do this. Greg's Sexy Eagle News. All right, guys, get ready.
PIRRO: Oh, I love this.
GUTFELD: Look at that. That's a juvenile bald eagle as he glides.
WATTERS: Barely legal.
GUTFELD: Gliding, gliding through the snow, breaking through the showers in western Colorado, hunting for breakfast. Breakfast in bed perhaps? Gliding through the snowy trees of Colorado's Frying Pan Valley. Fly away, little eagle. Fly away.
FORD JR.: Fly like an eagle.
WATTERS: I need a Merit cigarette.
PIRRO: Yes, it looks like a hawk. Jesse?
WATTERS: All right, just the promo. Tonight, exclusive first images of the ICE raids.
PERINO: Wow.
WATTERS: Tonight at 8:00.
PIRRO: Wow. OK, check out this hysterical real-life Garland. The second- floor lazy cat didn't like using the stairs the stairs and so he got his wish when his owner said forget it, made him his own custom elevator. He missed the basket but then he got it. That's it.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: SHOW

Publication-Type: Transcript

Transcript: 012201cb.258

Subject: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (79%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS VOCATIONS (78%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION, CITIZENSHIP & DISPLACEMENT (78%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2024 (78%); GENDER IDENTITY (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); RELIGIOUS FACILITIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (65%); Woke (%); Bishop (%); Donald Trump (%); Church (%); DEI (%); National Cathedral (%); Diversity (%); Inclusion (%); Federal (%); Affirmative Action (%); Merit (%); Al Sharpton (%); Sunny Hostin (%); The View (%); Joe Biden (%); Black (%); Trans (%); ICE (%); Illegals (%); Tom Homan (%); Liberals (%); Democrat Party (%); Pod Save America (%)

Company:  FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%)

Industry: NAICS516120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (64%); POULTRY (64%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (50%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (92%); J D VANCE (79%); JOE BIDEN (79%); AL SHARPTON (58%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (93%)

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
