




telegraph.co.uk
January 22, 2025 Wednesday 6:44 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 871 words
Byline: By Con Coughlin, Defence and Foreign Affairs Editor
Highlight: His reluctance to take military action is well known, but he is happy to purge DEI-loving commanders
Body


There are no doubt many factors that have contributed to the recruitment crisis currently  , not least the controversies surrounding America’s recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. But another reason – one the incoming Trump administration is keen to address – is the woke agenda being pursued by many top commanders.
Despite America continued status as the world’s leading military superpower, the recruitment crisis has led to concerns being raised about its readiness to fight another war due to shortages of soldiers, sailors and airmen. With major conflicts taking place in Europe and the Middle East, the global security environment has never been more challenging.
The US army has failed to meet its recruitment targets for the past two years, registering a 20 per cent shortfall in the number of new recruits, which has seen it fall to its smallest size since 1940. Meanwhile, both the navy and air force have similarly struggled to meet their recruitment objectives. The marine corps has managed to stay up to strength, but this is only because a recent restructuring means it needs fewer personnel.
And even though there are many reasons young Americans are proving reluctant to serve their country, the incoming Trump administration   of many of America’s leading commanders has contributed to the malaise.
Consequently, the US military is bracing itself for a purge of its senior ranks, as the incoming Trump administration has made reversing the outgoing Biden administration’s policies on gender and diversity one of its core priorities.
While Trump’s orders on gender and diversity were primarily aimed at the federal government, they are also likely to apply to the military, where Trump already has a track record for interfering on gender issues. In his first term, he issued a ban on transgender Americans serving in the military, a move subsequently . 
Trump’s latest executive orders indicate that he intends to adopt the same policy in his second term. Another of his executive orders states that there are only two sexes, male and female, which cannot be changed.
Trump’s determination to address the so-called woke agenda of some of the country’s top commanders is evident from recent statements made by Pete Hegseth, the former Fox News star who is .  Hegseth is said to be considering the creation of “warrior boards” of retired military officers to purge serving officers suspected of supporting diversity and inclusivity initiatives. One Trump-supporting think tank has already circulated a list of 20 generals, colonels and admirals accused of supporting such an agenda.
The Trump administration’s no-nonsense approach was underlined by the decision to sack Admiral Linda Fagan, the head of the US Coast Guard, over accusations she had spent too much time focusing on diversity policies.
Just how Trump’s assault on America’s military establishment over what is, fundamentally, a relatively fringe issue, will improve its war-fighting capabilities – as well as attract new recruits – remains to be seen. Of far more importance will be how Trump decides to deploy America’s military resources at a time when his country faces challenges on a number of fronts.
One of the more constant features of Trump’s first presidential term was his reluctance to involve US forces in military interventions, even when faced with extreme provocation, such as in 2019 when Iran   deployed in the Gulf.
Rather than responding by launching retaliatory attacks, Trump overruled national security officials who were in favour of mounting an overwhelming military response, on the grounds it could end up involving Washington in a costly war with Iran. He did later approve the assassination of Major General Qassim Soleimani, head of Iran’s covert-action arm, the Quds Force, but this was a comparatively surgical operation.
Another indication of Trump’s desire to scale down American involvement in overseas conflicts was evident from his attempt to withdraw US forces from northern Syria that had been involved in the military campaign to destroy Islamic State terrorists in Syria. Such a move, which Trump later reversed following pressure from his national security advisers, would have constituted a betrayal of the brave Kurds who led the assault on Islamic State’s so-called Caliphate.
Trump’s aversion to involving US forces in unnecessary foreign conflicts might be popular with his Maga followers, but it may no longer be prudent, given the dramatic changes that have taken place across the global security landscape since he was last in office. Trump can argue, as he does frequently, that the conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza are  , but he will find it harder to ignore China’s growing military power, especially if Beijing intensifies its . 
If the US is to maintain its status as the world’s pre-eminent military power, then Trump should focus on making sure the it has the cutting edge firepower to win wars, rather than worrying about the effectiveness of its gender-neutral recruits.

Load-Date: January 22, 2025


End of Document
