




Newsweek.com
February 5, 2025 Wednesday 10:34 AM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 505 words
Byline: Alice Gibbs
Highlight: The woman shared her theories with Newsweek about why the flags have been taken in from front yards.
Body


An Ohio woman has gained viral attention after sharing something she has noticed in her local area—a significant decline in the number of Trump-related flags and signs.
In  with more than 7.7 million views on , Carly Sablotny said that: "After leaving them up the last 4+ years, multiple neighbors have suddenly removed their MAGA flags."
Sablotny, who drives frequently for work, observed the trend over the past week.
"I drive a lot for work and I have noticed the last week that the amount of flags and other items were diminished by quite a bit," she told Newsweek. "I have seen not only flags but yards that had tons of Trump items for years have suddenly been cleared."
Donald Trump began his second term as president on January 20, 2025 when he was inaugurated as the 47th president.
From the moment he began office, Trump took several significant actions, repealing 67 Biden-era executive orders and 11 Presidential Memoranda;  who had been criminally charged with involvement in the 2021 Capitol riots; and issuing new directives expanding border enforcement, , and .
Sablotny was pleased to see the flags coming down from front yards, but did acknowledge that there may be multiple possible reasons for the removals.
"Some people, of course, removed [them] since we are past the inauguration," she said. "That would seem normal except many of these homes have had flags, sometimes even huge signs and full yard decorations for years."
But Sablotny said that some may be a result of shifting sentiment. "I have noticed in my comment section many people admitting regret. I have not seen so many admissions of regret in one place until now," she added. "I think a lot of people are regretting their vote at this point with everything that has happened. Others may still support yet not want to be as loud about it."
Political yard signs and flags often serve as a visible indicator of political support, and their removal can be interpreted in different ways. Whether it reflects a change in political sentiment, a natural postelection transition, or simply a return to normalcy for homeowners, the discussion has sparked serious debate on TikTok.
As the views racked up on the video, so too did the views in the comments. Some people reported similar experiences, like FedEx driver Christion who wrote: "FedEx Express driver here, they [are] disappearing on my country route too."
Khaleesi818 had also noticed the flags disappear from her area: "My neighbors did too. I need to know why but I will not be speaking to them."
But viewer Ashley said they had noticed the opposite: "Unfortunately reporting from Tampa Bay … they still have them all over the place here."
Many commenters said that the removals were due to Trump's recent inauguration and not an indication of regret. One user, Maricella posted, "I assume because he won." Tony agreed and said: "Nobody regrets it. He is literally doing everything he campaigned on."


Graphic

 
Viral post about yard signs
@carlysablotny/TikTok
Carly Sablotny from Ohio in the now-viral video that has sparked debate.

Load-Date: February 5, 2025


End of Document
