




thetimes.co.uk
February 27, 2025 Thursday 12:45 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 621 words
Byline: Andrea Blanco
Highlight: Marlean Ames receives a sympathetic hearing from justices over promotions for gay colleagues
Body


The US Supreme Court appears poised to rule in favour of a woman who claims she was passed over for two promotions because she is heterosexual.
The nation’s highest court heard arguments on Wednesday in the “reverse discrimination” case brought by Marlean Ames under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
In 2023 Ames filed a civil lawsuit against the Ohio department of youth services, claiming she faced discrimination as a “member of a majority group”. Ames, who has worked at the agency for more than two decades, argued she was passed over for a promotion that was ultimately given to a lesbian in 2019. Despite years of positive performance reviews, the suit alleged, Ames was then demoted and her position was given to a gay employee.
The lawsuit played out in lower courts before the sixth circuit US court of appeals dismissed Ames’s case, saying she had failed to demonstrate the department of youth services was “that unusual employer who discriminates against the majority”.
After hearing arguments from Ames’s lawyers and Ohio’s solicitor-general, the Supreme Court justices appeared likely to rule in favour of Ames and send her case back to the lower courts for further litigation.
Neil Gorsuch, a conservative justice, said there was “radical agreement” among justices and lawyers on both sides that the appeals court had hastily dismissed the case. His fellow conservative Amy Coney Barrett said it did not matter if Ames “was gay or whether she was straight, she would have the exact same burden and be treated the exact same way under Title VII”.
Ames’s lawyers told the court her employer kept the promotions open for months before giving them to the gay workers, who they said did not apply and were not interviewed for the positions. A large number of staff who identified as heterosexual applied for the job but were turned down, the lawyers added. 
Representatives for the state of Ohio previously argued Ames had gained a reputation as being “difficult to work with”, and that she was demoted because her employer had prioritised programmes she did not oversee.
Sonia Sotomayor, a liberal justice, said it was “suspicious” that someone “who’s gay, doesn’t have her level of college experience, and didn’t even want the job” was hired over Ames, as her lawsuit claimed. “Now, whether those facts are enough to make out that the employer’s proffered reason is pretextual in some way, the court hasn’t gotten to that yet,” Sotomayor said.
John Roberts, the chief justice, presented a hypothetical example in which a company employing 60 employees from minority backgrounds held a job open for months before giving the role to a member of a “majority group”. He then swapped the scenario and asked attorneys for the state if either case qualified for workplace discrimination proceedings.
Ohio’s solicitor-general, T Elliot Gaiser, agreed that both cases should have the same chances of moving through the legal system, and that “everyone here agrees everyone should be treated equally”.
A ruling in Ames’s favour could set a precedent for cases of reverse discrimination against majority groups such as straight and white individuals. Those cases have been traditionally required to meet a higher burden of proof than claims of discrimination raised by minority groups.
It comes amid internal turmoil at the federal level as the Trump administration 
. 
“We share Ohio’s concerns with making sure that meritless cases don’t reach trial,” said Ashley Robertson, a lawyer for the Department of Justice who also presented arguments on Wednesday. “We simply think that raising the standard at step one would be exactly the wrong way to address that concern.”

Load-Date: February 26, 2025


End of Document
