




MailOnline
February 24, 2025 Monday 10:01 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Associated Newspapers Ltd. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Version:1
Length: 1053 words
Byline: Sonya Gugliara For Dailymail.Com
Body


The US Supreme Court is set to weigh in on the case of a straight white woman from Ohio who claims she was passed up on a promotion for not being gay. 
                     Marlean Ames, 60, sued the Ohio Department of Youth Service, alleging she was denied a career advancement and then demoted from her position on the basis of her sexuality. 
In 2014, Ames became the Administrator of the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA). Three years later, she was assigned a new supervisor, Ginine Trim, who is a gay woman. 
Trim further reported to Assistant Director Julie Walburn, who is a straight woman. 
When Ames applied for and was denied of the Bureau Chief of Quality role in April 2019. Ames has claimed that Trim congratulated her on 30 years of service, but urged her to retire after she did not get the new job. 
The following month, she was fired from being the PREA Administrator and assigned a lesser position - and a $40,000 pay cut. 
Ames, who was hired by the department in 2004, believes the gay man, Alexander Stojsavljevic, who took her job when she was demoted and the gay woman, Yolanda Frierson, who earned the promotion instead of her were both less qualified than she was.
'That's how I came to feel that I was being discriminated on because I was straight and pushed aside for them,' Ames told Reuters. 
Ames filed a discrimination charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission before suing the Department for allegedly violating Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Title VII 'protects employees and job applicants from employment discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex and national origin,' according to the Federal Trade Commission. 
But her filing was dismissed by lower courts - the US District Court (SD Ohio) and the 6th Circuit US Court of Appeals - because judges ruled Ames failed to show the 'background circumstances' proving the department was 'that unusual employer who discriminates against the majority.' 
Background circumstances include statistical evidence that demonstrates there is a pattern of discriminatory behavior. 
In cases involving 'reverse' discrimination - when the plaintiff belongs to a majority group opposed to a minority group - the accuser must 'bear a higher burden' than others in order to prove their case, according to a St. John's Law Review.
The background circumstances framework was first set by the US Court of Appeals (DC Circuit) in 1981. It was established by Parker v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, according to law firm Ogletree Deakins. 
                     In the case, railroad conductor Karl Parker accused his employer and union's affirmative action plan of hindering him from getting a promotion. 
'Discrimination is discrimination,' Ames asserted to Reuters. 
On Wednesday, the US Supreme Court will consider arguments from Ames and her lawyer Edward Gilbert as to why the court should reopen her lawsuit. The former administrator is also seeking monetary damages from the state of Ohio.
If the predominately conservative court sides with Ames, the case is expected to set a precedent that makes it easier for non-minorities to file bias complaints, essentially challenging the legitimacy of 'background circumstances.' 
'This will hopefully be able to help anyone who feels they've been discriminated on to get a fair shake in the courtroom and not have to go to the lengths that I had to go to,' Ames told Reuters. 
But critics have fiercely defended the current interpretation of Title VII, arguing that Ames and her lawyer are using faulty reasoning. 
A Supreme Court filing from the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund and other civil rights organizations claims Ames is trying to 'to interpret Title VII in a way that ignores the realities of this country's persisting legacy of discrimination in evaluating disparate-treatment claims.'
A Writ of Certiorari, which is a request to revisit a lower court's decision, from local government organizations warned the Supreme Court that it could 'open the floodgates of litigation' to rule in Ames' favor. 
'The vehicle for these harmful efforts is the proposed undoing of the "background circumstances" rule, which requires a majority group plaintiff - like any other plaintiff- to establish the requisite inference of discriminatory intent before shifting the burden to the employer to demonstrate a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for its act,' the document reads. 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) practices have come under fire during the first month of Donald Trump's administration, and the number of 'reverse' discrimination lawsuits being filed is on the rise, Reuters reported. 
One of Trump's first actions taken during his second presidential term was to promptly crack down on federal government DEI policies. 
He ordered federal agencies' DEI offices to shutter and ordered the removal of anyone hired through a DEI policy within 24 hours of his decision. 
Trump's executive order, titled 'Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing and Initial Rescissions of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions', directly reverses a DEI executive order enacted by Joe Biden on his first day in office.
The order concludes: 'These programs divided Americans by race, wasted taxpayer dollars, and resulted in shameful discrimination.'
Elon Musk's DOGE team eliminated roughly half a billion dollars allocated to the Department of Education for DEI training grants within the first two weeks of February, according to the cost-cutting group. 
Tallying up the total savings resulting from the DEI programs being cut at the Department of Education since the first week of February, DOGE has claimed it saved taxpayers a whopping $489 million. 
                     MAGA-supporting conservative groups, including America First Legal, have already filed several legal actions that claim anti-male and anti-white discrimination, Reuters reported. 
Louisiana State University employment law professor William Corbett spoke about Ames upcoming Supreme Court date, telling Reuters: 'I think those who believe that reverse discrimination is a prevalent problem will see it as a victory and an adjustment that puts reverse and traditional discrimination claims on equal footing.'
The court is expected to come to a decision regarding Ames' case by the end of June 2025. 

Load-Date: February 25, 2025


End of Document
