




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
February 7, 2025 Friday 12:10 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 Axios 
Length: 661 words
Byline: Emily Peck
Body


February 7th, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )
The independent federal agency in charge of enforcing workplace anti-discrimination laws is caught in a bind under  
Why it matters: The White House crackdown - on transgender people; diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility; and the independence of federal agencies - all comes to a head at the the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The civil rights of Americans are at stake, according to advocates for workers and former EEOC officials.
Staff are "in revolt" over concerns that fulfilling Trump's anti-DEI and anti-transgender orders would break the law, as the  
The big picture: The situation is a big change from the fairly hands-off way Trump treated the agency in his first term.
In fact, it was a Trump Supreme Court appointee, Neil Gorsuch, who authored the landmark Bostock opinion, which found that discrimination against workers based on their sexual orientation or gender identity is prohibited under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act,the law that the EEOC enforces.
Where it stands: The agency is now treating gender identity cases differently, which will likely slow the process for those facing harassment at work.
Any cases that "implicate" Trump's  
Typically, cases are handled by local offices, and workers who bring charges to the EEOC are issued a "right to sue" letter to file a lawsuit in federal court.
The agency said it will continue to issue these letters, but didn't offer more about what the headquarter review process would entail.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment on the agency's new approach.
Also unclear: What happens to the cases brought by the agency that are already underway?
These include one, filed on behalf of a housekeeper at a Holiday Inn Express in New York,  
Such harassment is a violation of the way the agency has interpreted the Supreme Court ruling, but that interpretation is opposed by EEOC acting chair Andrea Lucas.
"Sex is binary (male and female) and immutable," Lucas, an outspoken DEI opponent, said  
"It is not harassment to acknowledge these truths - or to use language like pronouns that flow from these realities, even repeatedly."
What they're saying: "The EEOC's mission is to prevent and remedy all forms of unlawful discrimination in the workplace," said Karla Gilbride, former general counsel at the agency, who was recently fired by Trump.
"I'm concerned about the effect of President Trump's executive order on gender, and the way it's being implemented, is having on the agency's ability to serve that mission," Gilbride told Axios.
Context: Trump also fired two Democratic EEOC commissioners, including  
While it's not unusual for a new administration to replace an agency's general counsel, terminating commissioners with defined terms is highly unusual.
The firings leave the agency without the quorum it needs to do much of its work, and the moves have been criticized as part of a broader attack on the independence of federal agencies.
What's next: Once new commissioners are in place, Lucas has said she'd like to update the guidelines around enforcing sex-based discrimination and roll back what she's called "the Biden administration's gender identity agenda."
It's likely those changes will face court challenges.
The bottom line: The agency tasked with protecting the rights of transgender workers may no longer be focused on fulfilling that mission.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 7, 2025


End of Document
