




The Independent - Daily Edition
January 30, 2025 Thursday
First Edition


Copyright 2025 Independent Print Ltd All Rights Reserved


Section: WORLD; Pg. 17
Length: 548 words
Body


Sinkhole swallows truck and driver in Japan
A large sinkhole appeared at a busy intersection in a Japanese city on Tuesday, swallowing a rubbish truck and trapping its driver inside. The incident took place in Yashio at around 10am local time, Saitama prefecture governor Motohiro Ono said.
The Mainichi reported that sediment likely flowed into the heavily corroded pipe, laid about 33ft underground, creating a hollow beneath the road, which collapsed under the weight of passing vehicles.
Nearly 30 hours after the collapse, the driver remained trapped in the vehicle as sand and mud filled his seat, according to Japan's Nippon TV. Rescue workers were reportedly pumping air into the hole to supply oxygen to the 74-year-old driver but by yesterday morning water had begun to submerge the driver.
A second sinkhole also opened up near the initial one, complicating the mission. As of 3.30pm local time, the operation had yet to resume.
US State Department told to observe anti-diversity rules
The US State Department will "maintain" the "spirit" of president Donald Trump's order rescinding DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) programmes - a move that will likely leave the agency downplaying Black History Month, according to a report.
As part of Trump's efforts to drastically scale back diversity programmes, federal departments have been asked to shut down DEI departments, rescind DEI guidance and put all DEI workers on leave.
An email, obtained by the Wall Street Journal, offered State Department officials vague guidance for Black History Month imploring staff to highlight "valuable contributions of individual Americans throughout US history, while ensuring our public communications maintain the spirit of the directive eliminating DEAI programmes".
Vatican warns AI must not 'replace' humans or God
A new Vatican document offers wide-ranging ethical guidelines for the application of artificial intelligence, warning it must be used to "complement human intelligence, rather than replace" it. In the latest of several of the Pope's warnings about the technology, the document says that AI's potential in weapons manufacturing could provoke "a destabilising arms race" and lacked the "moral" and "ethical" judgement of human beings.
The document even strongly warned against the search for spiritual meaning in the prolific technology, saying: "The presumption of substituting God for an artefact of human making is idolatry, a practice scripture explicitly warns against." AP
Security hired to guard popular Japanese viewpoint
A Japanese city has hired security guards to oversee a scenic vista after it became inundated with tourists. The spot, featured in the 1995 Japanese film Love Letter, is popular for its views of the sea, especially during the lunar new year holidays. A tourist was killed at the spot earlier this month, struck by a train while taking pictures.
There have also been a number of complaints by residents. "People are even entering private property without permission to take photos," local resident Hidetoshi Itagaki, 80, told the Japanese media outlet.
On Tuesday, guards were stationed at three places carrying signs in English, Chinese and Korean urging visitors not to trespass on private property or take photos in the middle of the road, Kyodo News reported.

Load-Date: January 29, 2025


End of Document
