




CNN INTERNATIONAL CONNECT THE WORLD 9:00 AM EST
January 21, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved 
Section: NEWS; International
Length: 5805 words
Byline: Eleni Giokos, Nick Paton Walsh, Kevin Liptak, Stephen Collinson, Valeria Leon, Alex Marquardt, Richard Quest, Anna Stewart, Amanda Davies
Highlight: Zelenskyy addresses World Economic Forum; Trump shuts down immigration app allowing migrants to enter U.S. legally as asylum-seekers; Zelenskyy urges "United" self-sufficient Europe at Davos; Late night hosts react to Trump's second inauguration; Trial against Murdoch's Tabloids begins
Body


[09:00:00]
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: And we must ensure America also sees us as essential for that to happen, America's focus mush shift to Europe. So that one day in Washington they will say, all eyes on Europe. And not because of war, bur because of the opportunities in Europe.
Europe needs to know how to defend itself. Hundreds of millions of people with it -- with the Europe to see its landmarks, to learn from its cultural heritage. Millions in the world dream of living like the Europeans do. And will we be able to keep it and pass it to our children?
If we in Europe, can answer positively, America will need Europe, as well as other global players. Europe must shape history for itself and its allies to remain not just relevant, but alive and great. Thank you. Slava Ukraini.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, speaking there at the World Economic Forum, talking about the need to, of course, focus on European defense, the future of NATO. And of course, now that President Donald Trump has signed many executive orders. He made quite a few comments about that, and talking about whether America will be prioritizing Europe, and that is paramount.
I'm Eleni Giokos in Abu Dhabi. Great to have you with us. We've got Nick Paton Walsh, who has been listening to the Ukrainian President live from Kyiv. Take me through some of the salient points there, Nick and what you've picked up. And of course, perhaps a harbinger of what he believes will come if Europe does not prioritize defense and, of course, investment in things like tech.
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. I mean, this was a startlingly lengthy not excoriation, but wake up call, I think, or lecture at some moments to the European elite assembled in front of him. Ukraine on the edges of Europe, part of the continent, clearly, but its aspirations to join the EU so much part of what we've seen as the underlying causes for some of the conflict here.
But a startling reminder to the European elite in front of him of the irrelevance, frankly, that Europe risks if it doesn't embrace the challenges of defense of a fast-changing world, referring to how the TikTok algorithm, owned by a Chinese company, is now more powerful at times than some governments on that particular continent, saying, indeed, too, that while the U.S. is an indispensable ally for Europe.
Does anyone in the U.S. worry that Europe will stop becoming the United States' ally, trying, I think, to needle at the slipping relevance, frankly, of many European powers and their reluctance it seems to spend more on defense. I think it's clear from listening to this that he certainly heard the comments of President Donald Trump in the White House later last night.
His time, about how there is an ocean separating the United States from the conflict in Ukraine, you made a reference how there is no ocean separating Europe from Russia at all. And also mimicking the demand for 5 percent expenditure on European defense that we heard from Trump just a matter of hours ago.
Essentially, I think, trying to take the side of this new White House and pushing their European allies to remind themselves to be cognizant of the fact that the crisis happening here. The war being fought here in Ukraine, is a direct threat to European security.
An immediate one, in a way that it is not to the United States, referring indeed too, to how the battles involving North Koreans happening far closer to Davos than they are to Pyongyang. And reminding those in front of him that the deals Iran and North Korea are making are against you, are against European powers.
When Iran and North Korea signed a pact with Russia, that is essentially, Zelenskyy saying that the focus of that is to thwart European security. So, a large array of comments here by Zelenskyy about the, I think, to paraphrase him, the fact lessness, the weakness of Europe when dealing with its own security, making a pointed reference towards Slovakia.
Often quite warm and friendly in its rhetoric about Russia, saying how the Slovakians are happy to buy Russian gas, a paraphrase here, but also depend upon your United States guarantees for their own security, essentially trying to state Europeans in front of them.
You can't have it both ways here right now, you can't expect the United States to step in and guarantee you security when you are not willing to spend enough to guarantee your own security autonomously, and you can't simultaneously try and have some sort of energy independence while part of you still want to take cheap Russian gas as well.
So, a remarkably strong message, frankly, one which clearly deviates away from any discussion of what nature a peace deal might take here and as the Leader of Ukraine, that suffered so much loss and destruction itself and had a lot of European vocal support, but not necessarily the pace and volume of military support.
[09:05:00]
It would like to see from Europe, clearly stating that unless Europe changes its position and steps up. It can't expect the United States to persist. Particularly under a Trump Administration, the same way it has over the past three years, almost.
GIOKOS: Yeah. It's very true, and in a sense, as you say, not only talking to the elite gathered at the World Economic Forum, but perhaps a message directly to the White House, and he ended up by saying that America needs to see U.S. or Europe as essential.
It is a conversation we'll be continuing to have, of course, very interesting comments, as you say. Nick Paton Walsh, thank you very much for joining us live from Kyiv. Moving on now, on the first full day of Donald Trump's second presidency, will feature a meeting with House and Senate Republican Leaders and what the White House calls a massive infrastructure announcement.
And the president is expected to sign more executive orders after a flurry of day one actions that impact immigration, birthright citizenship, protections for federal workers and perhaps the most notable, the January 6 rioters. The president pardoned or commuted the sentences of almost all of them.
He also pulled the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Agreement and the World Health Organization. Some of the orders are sweeping in scope and are already facing legal challenges. We have a lot to unpack here. We've got CNN's Senior White House Reporter Kevin Liptak and CNN's Politics Senior Reporter Stephen Collinson.
Welcome to both of you. As I say a lot, to get through many executive orders. I want to start off with you, Kevin, what are we expecting today? More executive orders to be signed?
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yeah, this administration is now 21 hours old, and we do expect the president to continue those actions that he began yesterday, really trying to wield the powers of the executive office, really testing the bounds of his presidential prerogative.
And as we heard from the new White House Press Secretary, we do expect an announcement from the president at 04:00 p.m. today, Eastern Time, about infrastructure, which is a topic that was repeatedly obscured during the first Trump Administration. President Biden, now Former President Biden signed a major infrastructure law when he was president.
And it remains to be seen exactly what the new president will be announcing later today. But certainly, really trying to set the tone for the next four years in his first hours in office, issuing those executive actions, some of them symbolic, but some of them highly consequential, including those massive blanket pardons for the January 6 rioters.
I do think it's notable what the president wasn't able to accomplish on his first day in office, which he promised to do as a candidate. One was to apply new tariffs on Mexico and Canada. We did hear last night that the president thinks those could go into effect on February 1, and then the deadline is coming very quickly for ending the war in Ukraine.
Remember, he said he would be able to resolve that in 24 hours. Obviously, that's not going to happen, but we did hear from him last night that he wants to speak with Vladimir Putin and try and discern whether he is open to a deal. And so, President Trump certainly has a plate full of things on his plate as he heads into this day.
We do expect him in the next hour or so to kind of conclude the inaugural rituals with a ceremony at the National Cathedral. And then, as you mentioned, he will be speaking with Republican leaders here at the White House later today. Of course, those actions that he took yesterday show that he's willing to go around Congress on some of his top priorities.
But he will need Congress on a number of other things, and there's a whole thicket of issues that they'll have to work through, complex issues of taxes, raising the debt limit, funding for immigration. They are not yet on the same page on how exactly they will get all of that done, and so that's something that the president will want to confer with those leaders on later today, Eleni.
GIOKOS: Exactly. It's going to be about implementation now. Kevin Liptak, thank you so much. Stephen Collinson is standing by with a brilliant piece that he wrote for cnn.com analysis about where we could be expecting from President Donald Trump.
We've just heard from President Zelenskyy at the World Economic Forum, and I'm paraphrasing here, but he said the world leaders are wondering about their relationship with the United States and whether the U.S. is still with them. Does anyone in the United States worry about Europe still being on its side?
Really interesting messaging here, because from what we've seen from President Trump, is that he is shaking up the world order.
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER: Yeah, that's right. And that was a pretty fascinating speech by Zelenskyy, who thought that Trump would have an ally in Ukraine in berating the Europeans for not spending enough on defense. He's quite a savvy operator, as we've seen Zelenskyy and he picked up on a comment that Trump made last night in the Oval Office.
[09:10:00]
When he said Europeans should be spending 5 percent on defense, not the 2 percent that they currently are committed to. That is a figure that I think most European countries would really struggle with. It's not even a figure that the United States is spending on defense, but I think it's a sign of the pressure that Trump is trying to bring on the Europeans to do more to support NATO.
And to stand up to Russia, and a sign that the U.S. doesn't want to do all of the work anymore, and for Zelenskyy to seize upon that. I think, is the start of a period of political jockeying that's going on as the Trump Administration tries to start this process of ending the war in Ukraine.
He's trying to get on Trump's side, perhaps make a more favorable position for himself than Russia. But he has clearly learned the new realities of the Trump Administration, perhaps earlier than many leaders in Europe, and even perhaps before President Vladimir Putin in Russia.
The new Secretary of State, Marco Rubio, came out this morning and said both sides will have to give something in the Ukraine peace negotiations if they take place. So, while Trump didn't manage to end the war in 24 hours, I think we're seeing real signs of potential movement towards some kind of negotiations if the Russians decide they want to take part.
GIOKOS: In your piece, Stephen, you say this, proclaiming a new American Golden Age, Trump consolidated power hours into his new term, wielding massive executive authority in seeking to obliterate large chunks of Joe Biden's legacy and showing he plans to learn from his first term failures to pull off a transformational presidency.
OK, so shaking things up domestically, as Zelenskyy said, world leaders are looking to see where they stand with the United States. What do you make of the most recent executive orders? What does it ultimately mean, I think everyone's looking very closely to see how it's going to affect respective countries, global policy, and of course, domestically as well.
COLLINSON: I think what the White House is trying to do is to show that Trump is in charge. He's confident he is applying massive power. He's immediately putting the United States on new path at home and abroad. A lot of this is imagery. That's something that Trump is expert at doing.
But it also shows not just the new president's confidence, but the fact that he is a new president who knows how to wield the levers of power quite effectively. Now we're going to get to a point when executive orders are fine, but a lot of these new orders that he's implemented need funding to carry out.
The president can't just whistle up money. It's up to Congress to appropriate that money. That's why this meeting with Republican leaders is so important today, while he can apply a lot of power as the president and through the executive office of the presidency, ultimately lasting change in the United States comes through acts of Congress and new laws.
Republicans have a tiny majority in the House. They can only lose one or two votes to pass major legislation. So, it's going to be very difficult for Trump to follow up the pace of these early days and keep up the momentum through the coming weeks. I think that's one reason why he clearly is looking to make a stir on the world stage, because that is something that could foster this impression of a president in a hurry, while the much more complex.
And in fact, treacherous business politically, of trying to get his agenda through a very delicate balance in the House especially takes place.
GIOKOS: Stephen Collinson, always good to speak to you. Thank you so much. Well, in addition to the January 6 mass pardons and commutations, many of Donald Trump's first actions as U.S. Presidents are really changing lives at the U.S. southern border. On Monday, the Trump Administration ended the use of an app that allowed migrants to apply to enter the U.S. legally as asylum seekers. CNN's Valeria Leon is gaging reaction.
VALERIA LEON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The dream for asylum seekers has come to an end as the CBP One application has been canceled. This app set up by the Biden Administration is no longer available. And many migrants here in this Mexican border town of Ciudad Juarez, have been waiting for months, even years, to be processed legally through this CBP One app.
We talked to some of the migrants among the last group that was waiting for being processed here at this international port in Ciudad Juarez, and this is what they told me.
[09:15:00]
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
YALIDETH SANCHEZ, VENEZUELAN MIGRANT: A surprise, because we were hoping to get through. We got here at five in the morning with our appointment that was scheduled for 1 in the afternoon. On several occasions, they informed us that they were going to see us at 11, and when 11 in the morning came, they told us that they were not going to see us today, and that until further notice, the appointments were suspended. However, when you go to the application that we use to request the appointment, it says the appointments were canceled.
MARGELY TINOCO, COLOMBIAN MIGRANT: But I know the president is human and that he should put his hand on his heart and look on the bright side that we are all human.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
LEON: While trying to prevent, or at least attend to this upcoming crisis. The Mexican government has announced the launch of its own CBP One app to process migrants coming through Mexico, but it's still unclear what's going to happen with the deportees coming from other countries here to Mexico, and how is exactly going to deal the Mexican government with this upcoming crisis. I'm Valeria Leon from Ciudad Juarez, CNN.
GIOKOS: A prisoner swap, years in the making between the U.S. and the Taliban has finally been reached. In the final hours of Joe Biden's presidency. Two Americans held in Afghanistan have been freed in exchange for a Taliban member serving a life sentence in the United States.
Americans, Ryan Corbett, shown in these images and William McKenty, are now on their way back home, though the destination in the United States is not yet clear. CNN's Chief National Security Correspondent Alex Marquardt has the latest from Washington. Alex, good to see you.
Remarkable prison exchange announced at the end of Biden's term, major negotiations, I think for multiple years. What do we know about the specifics of this deal and why it took so long?
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: It's really remarkable, well, in so many ways, but really that it was supposed to come to fruition into effect at the very last moment in the last hours of President Biden's tenure in office. His officials had been working on this for some two years, we're told, and the Taliban finally agreed to this trade.
And this was supposed to happen before Donald Trump was sworn into office yesterday, but there was a series of delays, not just because of poor weather in Kabul and Washington, I'm told, but also, according to one of my sources, because the Taliban actually wanted to delay this until Trump was in office, so that he would get a little bit more credit.
And this unfolded early in the hours of Tuesday morning, local time around midnight here in Washington. Ryan Corbett, William McKenty, as you say, traded for Khan Mohammed. We don't know much about McKenty. We didn't know that he was being held by the Taliban, so that name was a bit of a surprise.
We know a lot more about Corbett. He and his family had been living in Afghanistan for more than a decade. He and them and three children and he - - they evacuated in 2021 when the Taliban came back to power, and the following year, Ryan went back to Afghanistan, and that's when he was detained.
Khan Mohammed was a Taliban member who was extradited to the United States in custody serving two life sentences for most of the past 20 years, convicted on Narco-terrorism charges. So, this was a remarkable deal two years in the making. A lot of these conversations, negotiations facilitated by Doha, Qatar, hosting these negotiations, also helping out with the operations today to get the two men back to the United States.
Eleni, there are also two other names that are often discussed about possible trades George Glezmann as well as Mahmood Habibi, they were not part of the exchange today. Of course, their families would love to see them home. They had been part of those discussions. We're told by Biden Administration officials that the Taliban would reject deal after deal after deal until this one actually happened.
I'm told that as this came into effect, as it was confirmed, the outgoing Biden Administration briefed the incoming Trump Administration. I spoke with a Senior Trump Administration Official who said that they wouldn't quite have approved this deal. We would not have done this deal that the Biden Administration did, but we are always happy to have two Americans home, Eleni.
GIOKOS: Alex Marquardt, thank you so much. Good to see you. Now in the occupied West Bank, Israel has launched a large scale and significant military operation in Jenin. According to a social media post from Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu's accounts, the Israeli military offensive has killed at least seven Palestinians, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health. Meantime, Israel's military chief of staff is resigning of a failure to prevent Hamas' October 7th attack.
[09:20:00]
In a letter released by the military a short time ago, Lieutenant General Herzi Halevi submitted his resignation effective March 6. Donald Trump has already pulled the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Agreement. Government and business leaders gathered in Davos and are waiting to see what the new American President does next. We're on the scene with a live report right after the short break. Stay with CNN.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GIOKOS: A short time ago, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke at the World Economic Forum in Davos, and he didn't hold back. Mr. Zelenskyy putting pressure on his fellow European leaders, urging them to unite to build new air defense systems.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ZELENSKYY: There is no ocean separating European countries from Russia. And the European leaders should remember these battles involving North Korean soldiers are now happening in places geographically closer to Davos than to Pyongyang.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIOKOS: His comments coming during President Trump's first full day back in the Oval Office. Mr. Trump says he wants the Ukraine war to be over, quote, as quickly as possible. He'll also be speaking in Davos this week. CNN's Richard Quest is live for us in Davos, Switzerland. Good to see you, Richard.
Look President Zelenskyy needs Donald Trump on his side. He also needs European leaders on his side. We just heard him speak. Do you believe he achieved this?
RICHARD QUEST, CNN ANCHOR OF "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS": President Zelenskyy, the speech has just finished, and you can see behind me, people are streaming out. I actually went in the room to hear it in person, rather than just watching the feed to get the feel of it. It was brutal. It was hard hitting. It was a dramatic reminder not to President Trump.
Zelenskyy knows that the U.S. President will do what he wants. This was aimed fair and square right into the Europeans, and it basically comes down to this, Eleni to how much do the Europeans angst about the Americans? A great deal. How much do the Americans angst about the Europeans barely at all?
His point was this. Europe needs to get its act together to make itself relevant to the United States in a way that until now, as he points out, the U.S. is more concerned with Asia, it's more concerned with the Middle East, and Europe is somewhere dragging behind. So, his argument is sophisticated. It is, yes, we need help, but help starts at home, and that means Europe must step up to the plate.
GIOKOS: Yeah, exactly. I mean, he basically said everyone is worried about whether they are still allies of the United States.
[09:25:00]
The U.S. isn't worrying about its allies, but Richard, look President Trump shaking up global foreign policy, frankly, the world order. Our leaders and CEOs that you've been speaking to prepared for this. How are they responding to what we've heard in the last 24 hours?
QUEST: All right, now I'll give it right down the barrel. All right, you ready for this. There are two Davos is here this year. There is the Davos of the financiers, the bankers, the cryptos, the entire financial world. They are ready, eager, waiting. They know there's going to be deregulation, there's going to be more crypto, there's going to be an economy on steroids, to quote, President Trump from yesterday, is going to be growth, growth, growth.
And then you have the other Davos. You have the NGOs. You have the socially aware groups. You have the DEI diversity groups. You have everybody else concerned with water, women's healthcare, all the other issues, global politics, geostrategic politics. There, they're walking around like they've been hit over their head with a piece of wet fish.
They've no idea what's coming. They don't know the way that it's going to go forward, and more crucially, they fear that they're going to just be ignored and it will become irrelevant, which is not a bad justification of their feelings when you look at the executive orders yesterday.
GIOKOS: Yeah, exactly. OK. Drill, baby, drill, anyone talking about that? Because one of the themes for World Economic Forum is protecting the planet. Drill, baby, drill, is against protecting the planet.
QUEST: Yeah, well, what they point out on the sophisticated drill, baby, drill, is that the U.S. is already the largest LNG and also oil, pretty much exporter and producer.
GIOKOS: Yeah.
QUEST: I mean, the U.S. is already there. So go ahead and drill, baby, drill. But who's going to buy it? First of all, you've got energy independence de facto in the United States. So, drill, baby, drill is a motto, and it's a state of mind more than a practical reality. Davos has -- there is a group of people here, who have believed that have just been told the earth is flat and Donald Trump is going to prove it to them over the next four years.
That's the way Davos is in this topsy-turvy environment that frankly, half the people are walking around with smiles and ear to ear, the other half, as I say, look like they've been hit over the head with a piece of wet fish.
GIOKOS: Well, Richard Quest, always good to speak to you, my friend. Enjoy it, and we'll be back right after the short break with market open in New York. Stay with CNN.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[09:30:00]
GIOKOS: I'm Eleni Giokos in Abu Dhabi, and you're watching "Connect the World". Let's check in to see how the markets in the United States are faring. The opening bell on Wall Street just rang. And of course, a lot of excitement about what Trump presidency will ultimately mean for the U.S. economy and for markets, importantly, these are the opening levels.
As you can see, DOW is up no point 4 percent NASDAQ, as well as S&P up almost half a percent a day after the inauguration. Now Donald Trump went easier than expected on China on his first day, but warned tariffs for Mexico as well as Canada could begin next month for more on how the global markets are reacting to Mr. Trump's return.
CNN's Anna Stewart joins us now live from London. Anna, always good to have you with us. The big question is, by the way, we've been talking about what global tariffs could ultimately mean for the world economy, and it seems it's going to be negative. The markets in the United States not reflecting that right now. But take us through what we're anticipating.
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, U.S. markets currently celebrating, of course, this is the first day of trade because markets were closed yesterday. This is the first day of the new Trump era for the U.S. stock market. Interesting to look at some of the currencies though, we saw lots of interesting moves yesterday.
In fact, at the beginning of yesterday, there were reports suggesting that perhaps President Trump might walk back his threat of tariffs on Canada and Mexico, two of the top three trading partners. Then in remarks, he made very clear that he is intending to implement them on February the first you can see both the Peso and the Canadian dollar are trading lower.
Interesting, though, on the Euro, Eleni. Now earlier that was actually higher. There was huge concern in Europe that tariffs might be implemented on the EU. They weren't. The Euro was high. It's now low. I think we're going to have for a few days or possibly weeks.
A lot of volatility in some of these markets, as markets and economies around the world wait to see what the tariff situation will be. Of course, at one stage, there was a threat from then President-elect Donald Trump that there would be tariffs across the board, universal tariffs of maybe 10 percent. So, I think the whole world right now, waiting to see if that comes true.
GIOKOS: Embracing for that, because it could be inflationary. I also want to talk about the Donald Trump, the Trump coin, as well as what we saw from Melania Trump, the Melania meme. And look, we also saw these plunging. They did really well initially, and then the Trump meme coin plunged 26 percent in around 24 hours. Take us through this where there is just speculative stuff.
STEWART: Yeah. I mean, this is kind of all crazy story, really. So, there was a Trump meme coin launch, an official one on Friday.
GIOKOS: Yeah.
STEWART: It was priced around $10 roughly, went up to $74 at one stage, which gave this meme coin a value of $14 billion it is now about half of that. There was also a First Lady Melania meme coin as well. It's seeing similar moves. I just want to read you what the Trump meme official line is in terms of what this coin is.
It says it's intended to function as an expression of support for an engagement with the ideals and beliefs embodied by the symbol Donald Trump. It is not intended to be or to be the subject of an investment opportunity, an investment contract or security of any type. But clearly this raises huge, huge ethical questions for ethical experts out there, not least given Donald Trump has promised.
GIOKOS: It did --
STEWART: The president has promised that he will roll back on regulation. Bitcoins hit its absolute highest record yesterday. He will have a huge impact on the prices of all cryptocurrencies.
GIOKOS: Yeah. I can't tell you how many phone calls I had this weekend asking me if I bought any of these. It's just really interesting to see how the excitement around it and whether they can make some money.
STEWART: Happy?
GIOKOS: But we will see, no, I did not. Was my child the whole weekend, because I'm focusing on investing weekends a lot for that, when you're a -- mother, Anna.
STEWART: I told -- story --
GIOKOS: Anna Stewart good to see you. We'll chat soon. Yeah, exactly. All right, other reactions were following "Late Night". Comedians in the U.S. are having a field day with Donald Trump's return to power. Stephen Colbert poking fun at Trump's inauguration speech taking place on Martin Luther King Jr., day in which the president promised to honor the civil rights leaders' legacy.
[09:35:00]
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Then his honor, we will strive together to make his dream a reality. We will make his dream come true.
STEPHEN COLBERT, HOST OF "THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT": Yes, we will make his dream come true. And that dream was, of course, buying Greenland. I don't know why. Not sure. Maybe that's where the mountaintop was. I don't know.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIOKOS: And Jon Stewart, a host of "The Daily Show", has his own theory for why Melania Trump wore sharp black hats that masked her eyes.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
JON STEWART, HOST OF " THE DAILY SHOW WITH JON STEWART": The award for most useful fashion accessory went to the ever-stylish Melania Trump, whose Audrey Hepburn-esque chapeau, or head cloche, as it's called, double doesn't affect him, if you don't control your borders.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
GIOKOS: All right. Well, still to come, an all-time great goes up against a young champion in the first Tennis Grand Slam of the year at stake a spot in the Aussie semifinals just ahead after the break. Stay with CNN.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
GIOKOS: Prince Harry's lawsuit against some parts of the British tabloid press begins in London today, a group of tabloids owned by Rupert Murdoch is being accused of gathering information unlawfully. The prince claims it happened for well over a decade. Max Foster has more for us.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): From making the papers to suing them. After reaching a legal settlement with the mirror group of newspapers, Prince Harry is now engaging in another legal battle, this time involving Rupert Murdoch's tabloid newspapers in a trial that could stretch on for months.
EMMA JONES, HACKED OFF CAMPAIGN GROUP: This is about newspaper wrongdoing that goes back a long time, but it's about finally bringing them to account. So really, it's more about the murky business of newspapers, rather than Prince Harry himself. He just happens to be somebody who had the money and the power to take it this far.
FOSTER (voice-over): That alleged murky business is said to go back years with Harry's complaint claiming the group illegally obtained private information about him and his family between 1996 and 2011, using it to write headlines and sell papers. The group has robustly denied the allegations.
And its lawyers have previously told the court that the new claims were a scarless and cynical attack. His mother famously had a turbulent relationship with the press. She died in a car crash in 1997 whilst being chased by paparazzi. 20 years later, Harry publicly criticized them in an interview with the BBC.
FOSTER: -- blames not just the photographer for his mother's death, but also the news desks that were driving the demand for those pictures.
[09:40:00]
JONES: Well, absolutely you cannot separate the fact that news had a huge part to do with that and that drive for information about her, it really was a moment of shock, and I think at the time, there was a great outpouring of anger towards the tabloid newspapers in this country.
FOSTER (voice-over): But the Royals haven't been the only alleged targets of the tabloids. Ordinary civilians say they were subject to claimed invasions of privacy, sometimes using very questionable tactics. And in a criminal trial starting in 2013, one editor of the Murdoch owned "News of the World", was found guilty of conspiracy to hack phones. He was sentenced to 18 months.
JONES: We're talking about Rupert Murdoch's culture here, and anybody who has worked.
FOSTER: Because he created the tabloid culture?
JONES: I think Rupert Murdoch certainly embraced the British tabloid culture and ran with it in and set it on fire, let's say, in a way that nobody else has ever done.
FOSTER (voice-over): A number of high-profile names are set to take to the stand during the weeks long trial, and many will be watching and hoping the case will bring about change. Max Foster, CNN, London.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
GIOKOS: Right, let's move on to the world of sports now, on one side of the net, the man many tennis fans consider the goat. On the other, a young champion and a new nemesis for Novak Djokovic. It was another epic between Novak and Carlos Alcaraz. Amanda Davies is now here with us with the lowdown. Amanda always good to see you. It's often a nail biter between Novak and Carlos has how this one went?
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, well, the kangaroo tattoo that Carlos Alcaraz had promised to get if he completed his set of Grand Slam titles, is going to have to wait, Eleni. It was an epic encounter, as you say -- as you said, so often, they are between these two, but it is Novak Djokovic.
We had the meeting of the oldest men's tennis world number one, the youngest men's tennis world number one. But Novak can still pull it out of the bag when it matters. He'd said afterwards, he said he felt he wished that this match had been the final, but it wasn't. It was a quarter final because of where Novak is in the draw.
So, it's Novak who continues his quest for a record extending 11th Australian Open crown. But yes, it was a brilliant one, and we've got highlights coming up in just a couple of minutes in "World Sport".
GIOKOS: Great stuff. I look forward to seeing that. Amanda Davies will catch up with you in just a bit. I'll be back at the top of the hour with more connect the world, stay with CNN.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
[09:45:00]
(WORLD SPORT)

Load-Date: January 21, 2025


End of Document
