




The Griffon News: Missouri Western State College
February 28, 2025 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2025 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 789 words
Body


Volodymyr Zelensky said Friday that his relations with the United States can still be repaired after President Donald Trump shouted at him in an angry White House meltdown accusing the Ukrainian leader of refusing to make peace with Russia.
"Of course," Zelensky said when asked in a Fox News interview if the relationship with Trump could be salvaged.
US-Ukrainian ties are about "more than two presidents," he said, adding that Ukraine badly needs Washington's help in the fight against Russia's far bigger and better-armed military.
"It will be difficult without your support," Zelensky said on Fox -- Trump's favorite news channel.
Zelensky's olive branch came hours after the extraordinary Oval Office scene where the years-long US policy of massive support for Ukraine's fight against Russian invasion collapsed in a shouting match.
The row saw European leaders scramble to voice support for Ukraine after Zelensky was made to leave the White House early and without signing a minerals-sharing deal seen as vital to an eventual US-brokered truce.
During the ugly clash, played out in front of US and international media, Trump and Vice President JD Vance shouted at Zelensky, accusing him of not being "thankful" and refusing to accept their proposed truce terms.
"You don't have the cards right now," Trump said. "You're either going to make a deal or we're out, and if we're out, you'll fight it out and I don't think it's going to be pretty."
Zelensky departed shortly after, with Trump posting on social media that "he can come back when he is ready for peace."
US media reported that Zelensky had been told to leave by senior Trump officials.
The president told journalists later Friday that Zelensky was "overplaying his hand" and should agree to end fighting "immediately."
Zelensky, however, refused to apologize, telling Fox News, "I'm not sure that we did something bad." He did, however, say he wished the exchange had not taken place in front of reporters.
- 'Not alone' -
US allies in Europe -- already worried that Trump will force Ukraine to effectively hand victory to Russian President Vladimir Putin -- rushed to back Zelensky.
"You are not alone," Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said.
British Prime Minister Keir Starmer, fresh off his own visit to the White House, said he had spoken to both Trump and Zelensky by phone following the clash and vowed "unwavering support" for Kyiv.
Far-right Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni called for a summit "without delay" between the United States, Europe and their allies on Ukraine.
Trump and Vance are "doing Putin's dirty work," top US Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer posted.
More from this section
U.S. Cancels Ebola Aid in Uganda Despite Elon Musk's Claims
Hundreds of firings at key US climate agency: lawmaker
Ohio State closing DEI office after Trump executive order
But Russia was delighted with the collapse in relations between Kyiv and Washington.
Former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev called Zelensky an "insolent pig" who had received "a proper slap down in the Oval Office."
Trump's Republican Party echoed the Russians in blaming Zelensky.
Ukraine appeared united behind Zelensky, with its army chief vowing to stand with him while the foreign minister praised his "bravery." 
- Compromise with 'killer'? -
The meltdown came after Trump said Ukraine will have to make "compromises" in a truce with Russia, which has occupied swaths of the country.
Zelensky said there should be "no compromises with a killer on our territory."
After he pointed out that previous Western-backed peace efforts had failed to deter Russian aggression, Vance interrupted and called him "disrespectful."
The session then boiled over into Trump and Vance loudly berating the Ukrainian leader. He sat in evident discomfort as his hosts talked over him.
- Trump's 'numerous' Putin calls -
Trump has alarmed Kyiv and European allies with his abrupt U-turn in US policy, casting himself as a mediator between Putin and Zelensky and refusing to condemn the Russian invasion.
He said in the Oval Office that he had "spoken on numerous occasions" to Putin -- more than has been publicly reported.
Trump called Zelensky a "dictator" last week and has said he trusts Putin to "keep his word" over a ceasefire.
Trump told Zelensky that as a mediator he could not criticize one of the main sides.
However, speaking to Fox News, Zelensky said he wished Trump was "really more on our side."
Meanwhile Russia's assault on Ukraine continued.
Russian infantry were on Friday storming the Ukrainian border from the Russian region of Kursk, near areas of the region that were seized last summer by Ukrainian forces, Kyiv said Friday.
burs-sms/acb
Originally published on doc.afp.com, part of the BLOX Digital Content Exchange.

Load-Date: February 28, 2025


End of Document
