




The Daily Telegraph (London)
February 21, 2025 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 335 words
Byline: Matthew Field
Body


A MULTIBILLION-DOLLAR charity founded by Mark Zuckerberg has scrapped its diversity team and cancelled funding for projects promoting inclusivity.
The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI), which handles the philanthropic efforts of Mr Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla
Chan, told staff it would abandon a series of programmes aimed at diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI).
The for-profit charity will drop its internal DEI initiatives and stop all "social advocacy funding", including work focused on immigration and countering racism.
In an email to employees, Marc Malandro, CZI's chief operating officer, said: "We will no longer have a diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility team at CZI."
The organisation has dropped its so-called diverse slate practice, an inclusive hiring policy, and told applicants for $1.1m (£870,000) of grant funding for a programme celebrating diversity in science that the award had been cancelled. The charity also scrubbed mentions of diversity from its website, including a statement that the foundation focused its work through "a diversity, equity, and inclusion lens".
The charity would instead focus on "biology and AI" funding and will lay off staff within its community team, which had worked on promoting "economic inclusion". The decision comes weeks after staff at the CZI were reassured that sweeping cuts to diversity programmes at Mr Zuckerberg's Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram, would not affect the charitable organisation.
Meta cancelled a host of DEI programmes in January, days before the inauguration of Donald Trump, who has railed against "radical" and "illegal" corporate diversity initiatives. The White House has cancelled US government
DEI programmes and hiring. Mr Zuckerberg, who has sought to curry favour with Mr Trump's new administration, has ordered Meta to rewrite its moderation policies and claimed that DEI had "increasingly been used to shut down opinions".
Amazon and Google have also dropped diversity pledges since Mr Trump took office.

Load-Date: February 21, 2025


End of Document
