




thetimes.co.uk
February 2, 2025 Sunday 12:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 News International Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 470 words
Byline: William Turvill, Chief Business Correspondent
Highlight: Amid the backlash against “diversity, equity and inclusion”, the chief executive Allison Kirkby tells staff the policy is here to stay at the telecoms giant
Body


The BT boss Allison Kirkby has reaffirmed her “commitment to inclusion” in a reassurance to staff who have been “upset” by other organisations retreating from diversity policies.
In a memo to staff last week, the chief executive said: “It’s been hard lately to see companies and governments stepping back from their commitment to inclusion, equity and diversity. For many of you watching this unfold, I imagine it feels worrying and upsetting.
“It sends the message that these things are optional, temporary or not worth prioritising. I want to be absolutely clear: that’s not what we believe at BT.”
Kirkby called on her 117,000-strong workforce to bring the company’s inclusive values “to life”, adding: “We show up for each other every day and remind each other, when you see a difficult headline or a triggering news post: not here, not at BT.”
Her message came after several of the world’s largest businesses, including Meta, Walmart and McDonald’s, eliminated their 

 (DEI) policies. Since taking office last month, the US president Donald Trump has ditched several DEI programmes within his government and pressured corporate America to follow suit.
Many companies around the world adopted formal commitments to diversity, inclusion and the environment during the pandemic, especially after the Black Lives Matter protests in 2020.

 launched a “manifesto” of such commitments in late 2021, when Philip Jansen was chief executive. This included a goal for a 50-50 gender split across its global workforce, excluding Openreach, by 2030. As of last year, BT was 65 per cent male.
The company also said that a quarter of its UK staff would be from an ethnic minority background by 2030, and 17 per cent would be from a “background of disability”. As of last year, these percentages stood at 16 and 9 per cent respectively.
The manifesto also pledged to help 25 million people across the UK — including children, the elderly and vulnerable people — to improve their “digital skills” by 2026.
In her note to staff, Kirkby restated her “commitment to inclusion” and said that she was “proud” of several BT policies. She cited, as an example, some of the company’s leave policies, which entitle carers who look after loved ones to take two weeks of paid leave each year. New parents, meanwhile, get 18 weeks of full pay, eight weeks at half pay and 26 weeks at the statutory rate.
Kirkby said: “I believe we need to be as diverse as the customers we service, to be the customer-centric company we aspire to be, and to be able to live up to our purpose.” 
She added: “When we determine to be inclusive, we create an environment where everyone, no matter their background or characteristics, feels respected, valued and like they belong. And when every single one of us feels that way, we do our best work.”

Load-Date: February 1, 2025


End of Document
