




telegraph.co.uk
January 31, 2025 Friday 8:10 AM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: US; Version:4
Length: 953 words
Byline: By Connor Stringer, Deputy US Editor
Highlight: Aspiring air traffic controller speaks out following deadly collision between American Airlines plane and helicopter in Washington
Body


An aspiring air traffic controller who claimed he was denied a job because of diversity targets said the aviation agency’s obsession with inclusion . 
Andrew Brigida, 35, scored 100 per cent in his training exam but alleged that he was denied a position in an air traffic control tower because the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) recruitment process favoured diverse candidates. He is part of a class action lawsuit filed against the federal agency.
Speaking after the Washington air disaster,  , Mr Brigida claimed that years of diversity hiring meant it was only a matter of time before an accident happened.
“You want to hire the best and the brightest for this kind of job because it is a very stressful job and it can take a toll on you, age you prematurely,” he told The Telegraph. “You want to make sure that the people that are doing it are the best.”
On Friday, it emerged that one of the air traffic controllers had   on Wednesday evening when a passenger plane and a military helicopter collided above Washington.
At the time of the collision, there was one controller managing traffic for both helicopters and planes – a job normally handled by two people – according to The New York Times. The FAA described staffing levels as “not normal for the time of day and the volume of traffic”.
Investigators   from both the passenger jet and the helicopter, and are combing through the flight data and audio recordings. A report is expected to be released in 30 days.
More victims  , including the American Airlines pilots and crew. Captain Jonathan Campos, 34, and First Officer Samuel Lilley, 28, died along with flight attendants Ian Epstein, 52, and Danasia Elder.
On the Black Hawk helicopter, Crew Chief Ryan O’Hara was named along with Chief Warrant Officer 2, Andrew Eaves. The female pilot has not yet been identified.
Mr Brigida graduated from Arizona State University’s collegiate training initiative in 2013 – a partnership programme with the FAA that was previously used to train and select the most qualified applicants.
After scoring top marks in his air traffic control selection and training examination, he was placed on a preferred candidate list until the FAA changed the rules.
Under the Obama administration, the regulator replaced a skills-based test with a biographical questionnaire to attract more diverse applicants.
When Mr Brigida tried again to become an air traffic controller under the new tests, he said he failed the biographical questionnaire because he “didn’t fit the preferred ethnic profile”.
Donald Trump blamed  on the FAA’s recruitment policies, saying candidates with “severe intellectual and psychiatric disabilities” had been hired as air traffic controllers.
Mr Brigida said previous administrations were to blame for the air traffic control staffing crisis because they “got too comfortable because there has not been an incident in a long time”.
He added: “There have been plenty of stories of near miss events that have been the cause of staffing issues. It’s surprising that it’s gone on this long without being properly recognised by the government.”
Asked whether years of diversity hiring meant an accident was waiting to happen, Mr Brigida, who now works in the FAA as a programme manager said: “Yes, that’s kind of accurate.”
He said he hoped Mr Trump would now “immediately” to fix the staffing crisis, saying: “He obviously sees the issue at hand, and if he didn’t I’m sure people that work in the Department of Transportation and the FAA informed him that there is an issue with staffing and air traffic control.”
In November 2019, attorneys for Mountain States Legal Foundation sought class action status in a lawsuit for more than 2,500 aspiring air traffic controllers who they said were harmed by the FAA’s hiring policies.
They argued that the Obama administration endangered public safety by prioritising racial politics and owes compensation for the “grave injustice”. The FAA and the US transport department are contesting the lawsuit.
With the case expected to go to court early next year with 900 claimants, Will Trachman, the lead counsel, said   had tried to sweep the diversity scandal “under the rug”.
“This started under Obama, but it’s the Biden administration that tried to sweep it under the rug and assert attorney-client privilege over 14,000 documents and has been trying to oppose and dismiss this case,” said Mr Trachman.
“It’s one thing to do it but the Biden administration refused to recognise the error of the FAA’s ways and so they dug in and, in fact, tried to go bigger on diversity measures.”
American Airlines flight 5342 had been descending towards the runway at Ronald Reagan National Airport on Wednesday evening when it collided with the helicopter and plunged into the Potomac. All of those on board both aircraft were killed.
Mr Trump told a White House press conference that the military helicopter did “the opposite of what it was told” before crashing into the American Airlines flight, which had 64 people on board.
The president, who has recently signed executive orders   in the federal government, blamed his predecessor for lowering standards and endangering lives.
“My administration will set the highest possible bar for aviation safety,” he told reporters, adding that a “very special genius” was needed to coordinate air traffic.
Quoting DEI policy, he said that the FAA was “actively recruiting workers who suffer severe intellectual disabilities, psychiatric problems, and other mental and physical conditions”.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
