




telegraph.co.uk
February 14, 2025 Friday 4:13 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 Telegraph Media Group Holdings Limited All Rights Reserved


Section: GLOBAL HEALTH; Version:3
Length: 2206 words
Byline: By Ben Farmer, Sarah Newey, Global Health Security Correspondent in in Bangkok
Highlight: Trump and Musk’s foreign aid funding freeze sends geopolitical shock waves across the world, causing chaos and confusion among beneficiaries
Body


Donald Trump and his right-hand man Elon Musk have frozen large sums of foreign aid and taken an axe to America’s vast international aid agency – USAID.
In recent days, Mr Musk has called the agency “ ” and a “criminal organisation”. He has said it is “beyond repair” and has boasted of “feeding USAID into the wood chipper” as jobs have been cut and aid put on hold.
He alleges the agency has been wasting huge sums of US tax money, and has been pouring funding into left-wing anti-American causes.
The spectacle has thrilled many of Mr Trump’s supporters, has sent geopolitical shock waves across the planet, . 
Some fear that leadership of the global effort to stamp out extreme poverty and build new markets – a major driver of global growth over the last 70 years – is about to switch to China or come to an end.
                     How much does America spend?                   
America has the largest foreign assistance programme in the world, and its spending makes up roughly 40 per cent of all global foreign aid.
The US spent , roughly 1.2 per cent of the federal budget, compared to a defence budget of more than $820bn (£662bn).
That spend is twice what Germany spent and five times what the UK spent, according to the 
Most of that foreign assistance spend, about three-fifths of the total, passes through USAID, and it is this agency which has been singled out to bear the brunt of Mr Musk’s anger.
                     What is USAID?                   
The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is America’s main federal agency providing foreign aid to the rest of the world.
The agency was set up by President John F Kennedy in 1961, at the height of the Cold War when America was trying to counter Soviet influence, as an umbrella for all foreign aid.
Continuing a tradition of American largesse going back to the Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe after the Second World War, Kennedy said America needed the agency to fulfil its moral, political and economic obligations to the rest of the world.
Spending money to ensure a stable, prosperous, free world was in America’s interests, he argued.
At the start, US foreign assistance spending was very much focused on worn-torn Europe – by investing to raise health and education levels on the continent, the US built vast markets to sell into.
USAID has since grown into a titan of soft power, employing more than 10,000 people across the world and distributing aid to some 130 countries.
In 2023, USAID funded $43bn (£35bn) of programmes.
                     Where is the money spent and on what?                   
USAID’s reach is vast and it funds programmes in some 130 countries.
The biggest recipients in 2023 were Ukraine, which was given $16.4bn (£13.2bn).Ethiopia was given $1.4bn (£1.1bn), Jordan received $1.2bn (£1.0bn), Somalia received $1bn (£0.8bn) and the Democratic Republic of Congo got $0.9bn (£0.7bn).
It is not only poor countries that get money. Israel got $5.3m (£4.3m) in 2023, Ireland got $3m (£2.4m) and Germany got $15m (£12.0m).
USAID funds a huge spread of projects, ranging from humanitarian aid needed after natural disasters, to grassroots health projects and medical research, providing clean water, boosting agriculture, or education.
In a continuation of its roots during the Cold War, it also spends money on projects aimed at strengthening democracy, civil society and the media.
Around a quarter of the 2023 money ($9bn or £7bn) went to emergency humanitarian assistance.
Some $17bn (£14bn) went to governance programmes and some $7bn (£6bn) came under the heading of ‘health and population’
                     What do Americans think of foreign assistance?                   
Polls have long shown Americans broadly split on foreign aid. A 2019 survey found that 35 per cent wanted to increase economic aid to the needy, 33 per cent wanted to keep it the same, and 28 per cent wanted to decrease it.
However, surveys find that goals like stopping terrorist attacks and drug trafficking, curbing Chinese influence or preventing infectious diseases are seen as far higher foreign policy priorities than promoting human rights or democracy.
                     What have Trump and Musk done?                   
The agency finds itself as a punchbag on the wrong side of several of the new president’s touchstone themes.
Before the election he vowed to cut wasteful federal spending and he has criticised the agency as a spendthrift Washington behemoth run by unaccountable bureaucrats.
He is also a long term critic of overseas spending, saying he is tired of foreign interventions and fed up with American generosity being taken for granted. He has promised to instead put ‘America First’ and focus on domestic matters.
Moreover, he has argued that programmes addressing issues like climate change, or diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), are un-American.
Mr Trump said last week that USAID’s spending “is totally unexplainable…close it down!”
Spending has been put on hold for 90 days while programmes are reviewed, and staff have been told they will be laid off.
                     What has been the immediate impact?                   
The overnight loss of the world’s biggest donor  , as NGOs and governments scramble to fill sudden holes in their budgets.
Projects have been told to stop work immediately and lay-offs have often followed quickly behind.
Winnie Byanyima, UNAIDS Executive Director, said the pause had created “panic, fear and confusion” in many of the African countries hardest hit by Aids, where America has long been a generous donor.
For example, Kenyan health sources told the Telegraph that on February 1 the University of Nairobi’s faculty of health services put 1,000 workers employed under USAID funding on unpaid leave for three months.
In Bangladesh, the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, has laid off 1,000 staff.
In Uganda, the National Malaria Control Programme has suspended spraying insecticides in homes and paused shipments of bednets.
Kenya’s treasury cabinet secretary, John Mbadi, said his government would have to cut its own development budget to make up shortfalls.
He said: “We will have to slash part of the development budget and use the money to finance critical programmes that will be starved of cash if the US stops foreign aid.”
Many recipients have been reluctant to comment, fearing criticism could put them in Mr Musk’s sights and jeopardise their funding in future.
“Part of the challenge… is the very haphazard way in which this review of US aid spending has been rolled out, which has created a lot of confusion and uncertainty – some would say chaos,” said Tom Kean, a Myanmar researcher at the Crisis Group thinktank.
“Many of the programmes were focused on things like governance, humanitarian aid, human rights related projects, so this could potentially undermine democracy in those countries,” added Dr Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations.
                     Could this be another Trump flip flop?                   
Mr Trump has a history of making bombshell policy pronouncements then either backing away, or making a u-turn, as with this month’s short-lived plan for tariffs against Canada and Mexico.
Marco Rubio, Mr Trump’s Secretary of State, has for example already hinted some programmes will be spared, and the assault on USAID is more about clipping its wings.
He said last week: “There are things that it does that are good and there are things that it does that we have strong questions about. It’s about the way it operates as an entity. And they’re supposed to take direction from the State Department, policy direction. They do not now.”
Mr Rubio has already offered a 90-day reprieve to USAID projects that provide “life-saving humanitarian assistance”.
This includes parts of the long-running  (Pepfar), set up by George W Bush. Pepfar has been widely praised and is seen as a significant legacy of Mr Bush’s Republican administration.
Health workers at a rural hospital in Malawi running an HIV clinic for example told the Telegraph they were now back at work after a brief hiatus.
Potentially Pepfar and other parts of USAID’s programmes could be reinstated after the 90-day review.
Yet the reprieve for Pepfar does not cover all services. For example the waiver states that anti-HIV protective medicine can only be given to pregnant and breastfeeding women, not other groups.
It is also unclear if Mr Trump has the power to close USAID on his own.
The courts have already stepped in.
One federal judge has ordered a temporary halt to plans to pull thousands of agency staffers off the job.
Another has ordered a temporary block on the funding freeze and stopping the new administration from cancelling foreign aid contracts and awards that were in place before Trump took office on January 20.
Whatever, the eventual fate of the programmes after the 90-day review, the stop work orders have thrown the aid world into disarray.
“The freeze has already had real consequences,” Alexandre Dayant, deputy director of the Indo-Pacific Development Centre at the Lowy Institute think tank, told The Telegraph.
“It’s not clear yet where we are at the moment [with the spending review], but even if some of the things Trump did can be undone, most of the impact cannot be.”
                     Can other countries step up and fill the gap?                   
USAID spending has been a geopolitical tool to win hearts and minds since the beginning, and experts have warned that stepping back will harm America’s reputation abroad and create a vacuum which adversaries could exploit.
Although the scale of the cuts is still not entirely clear, the uncertainty alone means America “will no longer be seen as a reliable partner,” said Mr Kean.
No other country has been as generous as America but the US is no longer the richest nation once GDP is adjusted for price.
Others such as the UK, Germany and Japan could step in to save specific programmes, but it comes at a time when domestic budgets are already squeezed, and it’s unlikely they will have the cash to fill potentially gaping holes.
There is a concern that instead, “America’s enemies will rejoice” and step in, according to Michael Schiffer, the assistant administrator of the USAID Bureau for Asia from 2022 until January this year.
“In halting foreign assistance spending, the Trump administration has just put America last, while handing a gift to our biggest adversaries, notably China,” he wrote in an analysis for . 
                     Will China exploit the USAID freeze?                   
China’s foreign aid spending is currently far less generous than America’s.
China does not freely share data on aid and gives fewer grants and more loans, but a 2021 white paper from Beijing said it had spent $42 billion in foreign assistance between 2013 and 2018, equal to $7bn a year. Just over half was distributed as loans.
There are early signs that  to take advantage of the USAID freeze.
The Cambodian Mine Action Centre said it received a pledge from Beijing of $4.4 million on February 5 – the US froze funding to the group, the country’s largest demining organisation, in late January. America donated $2m last year.
Meanwhile in Nepal, the Annapurna Express reported that Beijing has informally told local politicians that “China is willing to provide assistance if Nepal faces challenges in key sectors such as humanitarian aid, health, and education”. And in Colombia, NGOs told La Silla Vacia outlet that “suddenly the Chinese are getting more involved” as they look to replace lost USAID funds.
It’s not yet clear how far China will go to fill the entire gap. Beijing has long been critical of the western model of aid grants, and tends to instead invest in foreign countries through loans or its Belt and Road Initiative – which had a . 
Unlike the US, China also has few specialist programmes – for instance, offering technical support for epidemics or aid distribution in conflict zones.
Still, Beijing may not need to spend any more money to retain more influence, according to Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations.
“[China] might figure out that they don’t really need to do anything significant, because the US, the only major or viable competitor, is leaving the battlefield,” he said. “So, in a way, it’s the perfect opportunity for China to significantly explain its influence, even though that doesn’t necessarily mean they need to significantly increase the level of foreign aid.”
All this is making even some of Trump’s allies cautious.
“Sure, USAID was doing some highly questionable stuff that’s worthy of review,” said Michael Sobolik, according to Politico. “But don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. Beijing is hoping we do exactly that.”
                       Protect yourself and your family by learning more about                     

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
