




TheHill.com
January 26, 2025 Sunday


Copyright 2025 NEXSTAR MEDIA INC.  All Rights Reserved


Length: 430 words
Body


“Saturday Night Live’s” cold open spoofed the signing of the Declaration of Independence, except the scene featured President Trump.
The  John Hancock signing the declaration. Lin-Manuel Miranda appeared as his famous Broadway character Alexander Hamilton.
Before he was able to complete a rap, Trump appeared in the scene and the background actors were frozen.
“Never say never. Kidding, of course. Though, in many ways, I’m not,” Trump, played by James Austin Johnson, said. “But just like the Founding Fathers, I am creating a new country as well.”
“And just like them, we’re doing it very wisely. DEI is over. It’s dead,” he continued, using an abbreviation for diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI).
The scene referenced the first several days under Trump’s new administration, including the various executive orders he signed, and the weekend surrounded by tech billionaires.
“The inauguration was a tremendous success. It was inside due to cold and fear,” Trump’s character said. “We had a lot of surprise guests, like Melania. That was nice.”
Trump noted that he put his “nerd herd” in the front row, including Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Apple CEO Tim Cook and close ally Tesla CEO Elon Musk.
Musk made headlines this week when he appeared to do a Nazi salute at one of Trump’s inauguration celebrations. He dismissed the criticism, and Trump in the skit said it was “not true” he did the action.
“He simply was creating a new greeting. A cross between ‘hi’ and ‘hello.’ We’re calling it a ‘heil,’” Trump’s character said on the show.
In the scene, Trump noted how many of former President Biden’s actions he had already undone, including efforts to advance equity for the LGBTQ community.
“No more drag, no more guys in wigs, no more whatever these guys are wearing,” Trump’s character said, pointing to the scene of the Founding Fathers. “What a weird way to dress, right? A little zesty.”
He also noted the ongoing Cabinet confirmation hearings. Former “Fox & Friends” host Pete Hegseth was confirmed by the Senate this week, clearing the way for him to become the secretary of Defense. In the scene, Trump questioned who would play Hegseth on air.
“In conclusion, it’s been a great week. I basically hit all my campaign promises, except for the one people cared about: the price of eggs. All-time high,” Trump said. “Who would have thought it’d be easier to get a ceasefire in Gaza then bring down the price of eggs?”
“Might have to take the L on that one,” he said.


Load-Date: January 26, 2025


End of Document
