




The Guardian (London)
January 25, 2025 Saturday 2:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2025 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: US NEWS; Version:1
Length: 888 words
Byline: J Oliver Conroy
Highlight: The right is ecstatic about the end of the Biden era – but remains polarized about some of Trump’s decisions
Body


Americans really do inhabit two worlds: some shed tears of sadness at the advent of Donald Trump’s second presidency. Others cried, too – with joy.
Across the conservative,   and alternative media spheres, journalists, pundits and some social media circles celebrated the end of the Biden era with the enthusiasm of rebels toppling the relics of a collapsing dictatorship. As Trump swore his presidential oath, the writer Walter Kirn, a pro-Trump, anti-establishment agitator on X, grandiloquently   : “This is a revolution against a corrupt ancien regime.”
That sentiment was widely  , with rightwing pundits   Trump’s inauguration as “regime change” and “revolutionary” and   the “panic attacks” of liberal late-night hosts and MSNBC anchors. The conservative City Journal   Trump’s inauguration as “exhilarating”, arguing it was “safe to be a white male again” (while also criticizing Trump’s speech for failing to offer “any gestures of reconciliation toward the previous administration”).
Some commentators triumphantly  proclaimed Trump’s return part of a broader rightwing populist sweep across the world. A New York Post op-ed a couple of days before inauguration   that Trump’s “smashing victory is inspiring conservative parties in Canada, Europe and elsewhere to get off the mat and fight to reverse their countries’ progressive slide into oblivion”. The Liberal party in Canada is   to suffer a cratering loss to the Conservatives this year.
Elon Musk’s Nazi salute-like hand gesture received scant coverage on the right, with most outlets either not covering it,   it as meaningless, or sharing memes with   of Democratic politicians making similar gestures. (Musk has mocked the suggestion that it was a Nazi salute, without apologizing; the Anti-Defamation League immediately issued a statement   him, before backtracking as Musk began making Nazi puns on X.)
But there were some cracks visible on the right.
After Trump announced that he was   the flights of 1,600 Afghan refugees – including families whose lives are endangered because they worked with the US occupation – Jay Nordlinger, a conservative journalist,   on X: “In August 2021, a lot of Republicans said we had betrayed the Afghans. What will they say now?”
A commenter   : “Not a damn thing, to our everlasting shame.”
Trump’s decision to launch a “$Trump” cryptocurrency three days before taking office was polarizing, with some posters on conservative and cryptocurrency Reddit forums comparing it to a   scheme. Unhappy Maga enthusiasts online   the meme coin “ridiculous”, an “L” (loss), and no different from encouraging “gambling addiction”.
On the other hand, conservatives reacted mostly with rapture to Trump’s   of week-one   dismantling DEI and affirmative action, declaring an emergency at the southern border, attempting to end birthright citizenship, and withdrawing from the Paris climate accords and the World Health Organization.
Trump’s decision to commute the sentences of or pardon 1,500 January 6 rioters – some of whom attacked police officers – was widely lauded, with the convictions dismissed as overzealous. The amnesty was “the end of a prosecutorial nightmare”, BlazeMedia . 
Fox News devoted a number of segments and articles this week to shadowing the Ice raids that have already arrested hundreds of migrants. The coverage emphasized the arrests of  ,   and people with long rap sheets, as well as a looming confrontation between the federal government and “sanctuary cities” that have vowed not to cooperate with immigration authorities.
Conservative coverage   that even residents of liberal cities support the raids. Recent New York Times polling   that 44% of Democrats support deporting undocumented migrants who arrived during the Biden administration, though  polling   less support for mass deportations if they separate families or expel people long in America.
Conservative outlets have also been closely   the shooting death of a federal   near the Canadian border and a   on hikers in southern California that the US border patrol   was committed by Mexican cartel scouts.
Some were less happy with Trump’s move to   TikTok, however. The conservative Jewish magazine Tablet   a “danger that the combination of TikTok’s popularity, the president’s deal-making instincts, and the interests of some of his donors will make ‘saving’ TikTok – and thus providing a foreign adversary with a propaganda ray aimed squarely at the minds of more than 170 million Americans – seem like a win-win arrangement”.
Meanwhile, an ugly recent   over H-1B foreign-worker visas – which caused a schism between the “Silicon Valley” faction of the pro-Trump right, who favor these visas, and populist Maga nationalists, who loathe them – continues to reverberate. Steve Bannon, of the latter camp, is using podcast and media appearances to repeatedly   Musk and other tech “oligarchs” of a malign influence on Trump.
For now, the conservative media sphere is overjoyed at Trump’s second coming – but the   of his new coalition may still bubble over.

Load-Date: January 25, 2025


End of Document
