=== FILE: batch1_2_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE

ROMNEY THE INCREDIBLE

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

If there were not a George Romney,
invent one. I am still willing to be
convinced that the New York gover-
nor would reject a nomination if it
sought him after the bloody field was
strewn with the remains of the pres-
ent aspirants. But even if Rockefeller
does not want to be nominated, he is
the authentic champion of the Eastern
Establishment which cannot endure
the prospect of a Republican conven-
tion without a candidate for the nomi-
nation who reflects the interests and
views of that corner of the nation. It
has had such a candidate ever since
the days of Roscoe Conkling and the
time when Thomas B. Reed unsuc-
cessfully challenged McKinley and
Hanna in 1896.

In 1964, after the California pri-
mary virtually eliminated Rockefeller,
the E.E. projected Governor Scranton
as a somewhat singed and reluctant
offering. And now, with somewhat
similar blindness to the dominance in
the GOP of the West, the Midwest
and the South, the Michigan governor
has been built up as a contender.

But now, as Romney stands naked
in his inadequacy, there are voices
not far from New York City and Al-
bany supporting Governor Reagan.
Not because they admire him and his
views, but because he might be used
to frustrate Nixon in New Hampshire
and Wisconsin.

AN UNCERTAIN TRUMPET

Since Romney is now a professed
candidate, however, and his support-
ers must still find reasons for his nomi-
nation, it is pertinent to consider how
he would fare in a campaign against
Lyndon Johnson. Without reviving
the oft-reported account of Romney's
fumbling with the issues, I select for
illustration his performance on the
CBS "Face the Nation" program on
Nov. 19. He met on that occasion
three competent inquisitors who plied
him with highly pertinent questions
about Vietnam. One concerned Rom-
ney's idea that a solution lies in neu-
tralizing the whole area (presumably
North and South Vietnam), "taking
that area out of the cold war." That,
incidentally, would be like a sugges-
tion to Lincoln in 1862 that Virginia
and Washington be neutralized.

Q. Is there a specific program? You
say neutralization-
A. I am in the process of studying it
and developing it.

Romney then made the point that
the South Vietnamese should be made
to fight more.
Q. Suppose you were President and
they didn't?
A. We should cross that bridge
when we come to it.

Those answers characterize Rom-
ney's answers when he faces hard re-
alities for decision. Either he says he
must study some more or the problem
can wait for decision. He is really not
sure, clear and articulate about any
of the grim issues that are disturbing
Americans. How can Republicans ex-
pect a victory in 1968 when the tune
is called by this uncertain trumpet?

A SITTING DUCK FOR LBJ

For the next Presidential campaign
will not, like the last one, be a conflict
of ideologies. It will be a hard-hitting
debate over the tools essential to meet
American commitments abroad and at
home. The words "liberal," "conserva-
tive" or the blurred something called
"moderate" will have little relevance.
The Johnson cards are on the table.
And whoever challenges him must
match him point by point with viable
alternatives.

No Polonius can do that with a rou-
tine of homey platitudes. Nor can a
GOP candidate rely upon set speeches
prepared for him by an aggregation of
ghosts. It is incredible that Romney is
prepared to face such veteran cam-
paigners as LBJ and Humphrey and
also to meet, day after day, the merci-
less inquisition of the most numerous
and in part the most sophisticated
group of press representatives in the
world. The half-hour "Face the Na-
tion" performance shows how ill-pre-
pared he is for such a test.

It is equally incredible that Rom-
ney's lack of preparation is so glaring
after he has had more than two years
to inform himself on the vital issues
upon which the 1968 campaign will
be decided.

He should know, as he was remind-
ed, that neutralization means surren-
der to Communism on the installment
plan. And when he says, taking a cue
from Robert Kennedy, that the South
Vietnamese military forces are not
bearing their share of the burden, that
charge is shattered by General West-
moreland and Ambassador Bunker.

Indeed, Romney himself is incredi-
ble, considering how badly his scanty
knowledge and foggy faculties fail to
meet the range of his pretensions.

Newsweek, December 11, 1967

=== FILE: batch1_7_page0.txt ===
PERSPECTIVE
SUBSIDY OR WINDFALL
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Dolitical appeal, rather than econom-
ic sense and long-term constitu-
tional wisdom, has made the proposal
to share Federal revenues with the
states popular with all sorts of people.
Governors in both parties favor it be-
cause it would relieve them of some of
the unpleasant worry of collecting
taxes. Members of Congress love it
because it would please their tax-
burdened constituents at home. Con-
servatives are for it because it seems-
repeat seems-to be a way to return
power to the states. And federalizers
like Walter Heller support it because
his proposal would expand the power
of Congress over the states.
President Johnson and his fiscal
subordinates oppose it because it
would cut into their spending money.
On this issue LBJ, for the wrong rea-
son, is on the side of the angels.
The popularity of Federal revenue
sharing in Congress is shown in the
more than 70 bills introduced during
the first five months of this session. If
we count the co-sponsors of a Senate
bill on the subject, at least 100 repre-
sentatives and senators are backing
some form of the idea. Some plans
would return a percentage of the in-
dividual income-tax revenues to the
states as a substitute for the specific
grants-in-aid already in effect. Others
would give the handout in addition to
the grants-in-aid.
ALLOCATE RESPONSIBILITY
When Heller first proposed reve-
nue sharing, he said it would be a
way of disposing of an anticipated
Federal surplus. But when deficits
continued, he changed his position
and said he would favor the plan even
under deficit conditions. His proposal
would give the money in addition to
the present grants-in-aid.
The bills are of infinite variety.
They differ in the percentage of Fed-
eral revenues that they would return
and also in the allocation of the wind-
fall among the states.
There can be no denying the basic
proposition upon which the plans rest.
Grants-in-aid have grown prodigious-
ly. They have hopelessly scrambled
the relations between the Federal
government and the states. When
Taft was President, Federal grants to
the states amounted to only $3 mil-
lion. By 1920 they were $33 million;
by 1941 $836 million. In the past
twenty years they have increased
from $1 billion to $15 billion.
In principle, what we need is not
revenue sharing but responsibility
sharing. Indeed, much of the Ameri-
can Constitution has to do with the
sharing of responsibility between the
Federal establishment and the states.
For a century and a half, government
was nicely divided. There was the
Federal province, the states' prov-
ince and certain areas of joint respon-
sibility. But legislative actions have
greatly increased the functions of joint
responsibility and also programs in
which the Federal government has
taken over completely. The states
have been the most willing partici-
pants in this change.
DISCIPLINE OF TAXATION
Perhaps it is too late to reconstruct
the balance, even through constitu-
tional amendment. But the proposal
to share the revenues is to create a
still greater imbalance and still more
centralized power in Washington.
For the simple facts of political life
must convince anyone that if Congress
returns Federal revenues, governors,
legislatures and cities will not levy the
taxes needed to do what they should
do themselves. A windfall from Wash-
ington would relieve them of the
painful business of taxing their own
people.
As I noted earlier this year, taxation
is discipline. Those who levy taxes at
the state and local level must justify
their action because the new money
meets a manifest need. Discipline in-
volves courage, since state and local
forms of taxation must be unpleasant
and unpopular among taxpayers. This
imposes upon the taxing authorities
the duty of making clear that the
money is needed. And it also imposes
upon state and local governments the
responsibility of making sure that the
money is prudently and efficiently
spent. When taxes are levied and rev-
enues spent close to the taxpayers,
countless eyes are upon the spenders.
Federal income taxes are also pain-
ful to the taxpayers. But they are pa-
tiently endured, like the weather and
the certainty of death. Those who im-
pose them are far away in Washing-
ton. It is almost impossible to fix re-
sponsibility. The money is spent by a
faceless bureaucracy. Taxpayers can-
not reach the spenders. They cannot
effectively complain to them and they
cannot vote them out of office. That
is the traditional evil of a centralized
government.
Newsweek, October 2, 1967
